====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060428 ======

Agenda
~~~~~~
1. Participants: Michael Sparks, Matt Hammond
2. Note of agenda
3. Activity reports 

Michael's lines:

DONE - Michael to setup a second projects bliki
       Completed work on the selector
       Got the selector working with shutdown properly,
       Reviewed/merged the box code
       Got approval from management for summer of code
       Gained acceptance from Google for summer of code
       Pulled together summer of code projects
       Coordinated with Dirac team on SOC
       Created nexus page for summer of code
       Met the SOC deadline
TODO - Install debian & fedora box
       Install DVB-T card
       Describe desired test first rewrite of the TCP components on the project bliki
       Add in NotImplementedErrors for code removed by Box merge
       If Matt agrees, take over threading rewrite and optimisation
       Update BBC Research SoC page
       /document/ Kamaelia Macro better?
       Get approval for OSCON
       Get approval for EuroOSCON
BLOCKED - Nothing right now. Liable to be blocked by threads work. 
FOLLOWUP - none

Matt's lines:

DONE - Worked on Threading
       Wrote website content about whiteboard code.
TODO - Finish threading.
       Merge Michael's selector upgrades.
       Invert control flow.
       DVB SI extraction.
BLOCKED - None
FOLLOWUP - None  

4. Discussion items (3 or 4 max)

4.1 Todos, actions from last week, any updates.
Actions from the previous week were:

   * Matt to document sketcher in 3-4 paras on the bliki and/or website as
     he deems appropriate. - DONE
   * Michael to setup a second projects bliki - DONE
   * Describe desired test first rewrite of the TCP components on the
     project bliki - TODO

We noted that there's nothing really outstanding here, though Matt's NLP
course had been missed as a blocking issue last week. (Updated Matt's lines
above based on this conversation) We're treating BLOCKED also as unblocked
really.

Both noted that there wasn't anything new here to discuss really, but it
seemed worth carrying forward a a sensible discussion item.

4.2 Threading

We discussed the possibility of moving Matt's work over onto Michael due
to priorities and because Michael had noted that Matt had gone down what
looked like a dead end and decided to revert his code and start again.
However, Matt noted that the API was fully implemented in his previous
version and reverted to get something cleaner. He noted it should therefore
be very fast process.

Matt confirmed that a threaded component's main thread could look like:
    def main(self):
        """Main thread loop."""
        while 1:
            line = raw_input(self.prompt)
            line = line + self.eol
            self.send(line, "outbox")

And from a user perspective operate the way they expect. From an Axon
perspective this would be threadsafe.

Decision on the system inversion was to get the API sorted (see above). Then
the idea was to branch again afterwards. ie lots of little branches rather
than long lived branches.

Matt noted that no code had really been done regarding the system inversion
at this stage (Not sketches style code for example).

ACTION: To discuss the structure of inversion outside the meeting.
DECISION: Matt to carry on with threads work.


4.3 Progress on other work needed for Macro related work (May 16th...)

Brief recap of things needed for Macro that are vital for the May 16th
deadline:
    * Stream Capture
    * SI Information
    * Efficient transcoding to multiple formats - requires:
       * Efficient data transfer - box code, merged
       * Selector code merging - for shell out code
       * System inversion - to free up CPU for encoders
       * Requires the thread API

Michael noted that this set of items is very heavy on Matt's side of things
risking leaving Michael blocked. The work around this follows on from the
system inversion discussion. The plan is for Michael to produce a proof
of concept sketch, based on one of the miniaxons.

This should reduce the bottleneck by bootstrapping Matt's work on system
inversion. Leave's Matt's workplan unchanged, potentially speeds up and
avoids blocking Michael.


4.4 Summer of Code

We've been accepted - yay! Management gave us a fast an answer which really helped.
Some notes:

   * Michael's been hanging around on IRC on the following channels/networks:
      * #summer-discuss on slashnet
      * ##summer-google on freenode
     Fairly happy doing it alone, purpose is to generate interest. 

   * Michael's prioritised the list of potential ideas/projects, suggested
     changing the page to update priorities rather than block on Michael.

   * Matt noted the Bit Torrent component should shift up the list
     significantly

Other outstanding issues arising:
   * We need to configure our SOC page on google.com

ACTION: Configure our SOC page on google.com

Michael then discussed briefly some outlines for adding ideas and slotting
in the priorities. Focus was "what do we want done by June 30th", "what do
we want past that?". Noted: What sort of component work do we want started
*after* May 22nd.

We need this for evaluations, but also just generally useful.

ACTION: Database component - add to Projects Bliki
        Design and Implementation of a Network API.

Macro on May 16th:
   * Single channel, multiple formats, simple front end. Potentially looking
     like a blog. (Somewhere for SI infomation for example, we also have
     stuff set up for display of content in that format)

   * By 30th June that should be a search engine with a backend of lots of
     programmes. Requires a DB and backend of programmes. Front end can and
     should be trivial. Allows API design & testing.

Notes arising 
   * Who to advertise list at - aside from online groups: Kent University,
     Manchester University

   * We've got until May 22nd to finalise projects and match them to students.
     Realistically, that means the week after the Macro deadline will be needed
     to sort it.

We noted we were moving into territory that needs a longer discussion format, so
moved on.


5. Date/Time of next meeting:

    Friday 5th May 2006, 11am UK time

5.1 Date/Time of first bimonthly meeting - May 19th OK? Location?

Decision was Manchester:
    * <mhrd> I'd be very happy to come up to manchester - am interested to see the place & people
    * <MS-> OK, Project Sponsor isn't likely to be around given XTech, so MHS has less appeal (can invite, unlikely to be able to come)
    * Advantages of London instead:
       * It's useful if we want to invite someone from the london area.
       * We should still invite people, even if they can't come.
    * Matt noted open plan in W12, and network might be hard.

ACTION: Michael to find out about rooms.

5.2 Monthly report
    * STARTED, IN PROGRESS, DONE, BLOCKED/UNBLOCKED, OPTIONS (whiteboard etc), NOTABLE
    * Who to send to ? (perhaps off channel)

Who to send to:
   * JP
   * RC (TC for NM&T)
   * TL (Sponsor)
   * TH (TC for N&R - where Michael is located)
   * Pete.
   * Ian

Put list of projects in report?
   * Yes, the prioritised items - the ones we view as the ones we'd like to
     see people working on. Specifically, the ones supporting project goals,
     etc
   * Link to the full list.
   * Rationale: the actual list is wiki like and dynamic, ought to be
     distilled to the important info which people are interested in.

Michael also posted to the channel to the aggregate list of DONE, INPROGRESS,
BLOCKED & UNBLOCKED. Will leave for monthly report rather than here.

6 Internal Follow up

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060428 ======
