====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060915 ======

1. Note of Agenda
2. Participants
3. Activity Reports
4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
4.1 Taking stock: What is there to merge?
5. Date/Time of next meeting
Proposed: Fri 29th September 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)



2. Participants

Participating: MS- (Michael), mhrd (Matt), c-ryan (Ryan)
Also attending: Ifelipe, tav, Uraeus



3. Activity Reports

Michael:
    DONE:
        Contributor agreement finalised, agreed and dusted,
        Axon Visualiser extracted and tidied
            bugfixed deprecations
            fixed component declarations
        started branch of Compose to allow graph editting
            looking to replace the topology visualiser with the axon visualiser 
        agreed merge of threading work after basic review

    TODO:
        Finish graph editor
        merge Ryan & Thomas's code
        see if contributors agree to the agreement
        Euro FOO Camp
        EuroOSCON
        Kamaelia Open Space

    BLOCKED:
        Lots of little things interrupting time eating productivity
        replacing topology viewer more complex than expected
        next week blocked by conference

Ryan:
    DONE:
        Mail server memory efficiency improvements:
            processes a message as a stream instead of as a whole message
        Got bliki login
        Announced my BitTorrent components on bliki
        Very simple LOGO clone

    TODO:
        Finish tagging files for Kamaelia Contributor agreement
        SMTP client
        DNS MX record retrieval for remote mail delivery
        Make a (not-so-)MiniAxon to try out pause-by-default & wake cond. ideas
        Pygame BlitScheduler (alt. to using lots of surfaces with PygameDisplay)
        Rewrite LOGO clone to use BlitScheduler
        Write a compiler for fun

    BLOCKED:
        New laptop, old games :)

Matt:
    DONE:
        Digital TV (DVB-T) PVR Demo App
        Documenting DVB components
        Merged Axon threaded compnoent synchronous boxes support

    BLOCKED:
        bbc stuff

    TODO
        pymedia audio components docs
        finish tidying and rename DVB components
        incorporate DVB components into codebase
        make more pymedia wrappers (video)
        review/revisit experimental Timer component
        Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked to another
        review/merge sync boxes support for threaded component
        experiment with pausing when waiting to deliver to a full inbox


Matt and Michael complimented Ryan on his SMTP server improvements and Logo
idea. Matt asked Ryan to check that he had put these changes into the
repository.

Matt also asked Ryan if he could commit his Logo work into the repository. Ryan
was worried that "it's naff", but both Matt and Michael said that they were
still interested in seeing it anyway.



4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 Taking stock: What is there to merge?

Matt suggested that what he was really asking was what Michael planned to
include in the imminent EuroOSCON release.

Michael listed: (authorship in brackets)
    * BitTorrent                                          (Ryan, Google SoC)
    * HTTP                                                (Ryan, Google SoC)
    * OpenGL                                              (Thomas, Google SoC)
    * self.pause() implementation for threaded components (Matt)
    * New DVB components                                  (Matt)
    * Whiteboard with audio                               (Matt)
    * Graphline version of Tools/Compose.py (if finished) (Michael)

Michael explained that anything by Thomas and Ryan that had been 'packaged' for
Summer of Code would be included.

Michael explained that he didn't want to include any more than this in order to
give Thomas and Ryan's work suitable emphasis. He commented that these were "the
biggest bits of new functionality and rather nice too :)"

Matt agreed to get his DVB components tidied up as quickly as possible.

Matt pointed out dependancies for the whiteboard with audio:
    * speex component (Matt/Devendra)
    * pymedia components (Matt)
    * self.pause() implementation (Matt)

Matt expressed concern that Michael had given himself a lot of code to merge in
not very much time. Michael responded that most of it should be relatively easy
to merge.

At Michael's suggestion, Matt and Ryan agreed to do a quick review of Matt's
changes to threaded component; after which Matt would merge it himself.

Michael justified this by commenting that these changes had had a long soaktest.
Matt agreed pointing out the lack of formal unittests, but that some components
in the audio whiteboard had used these changes for a while now.

Michael explained to Ryan that it was too soon to merge Ryan's SMTP code. Ryan
agreed with this.

Matt expressed the hope that another release could be made after EuroOSCON,
perhaps incorporating code such as Ryan's SMTP components, if appropriate. Matt
suggested that, "if nothing else, documentation needs fleshing out :)"

Michael asked to be told about any other dependancies that Matt or Ryan can
think of for their, or others' code.

   * Matt agreed to email Michael/kamaelia-list on this in detail later
   * Ryan pointed Michael at the READMEs in his packages

Michael also asked if someone could do a fresh install or testing. In particular
Michael wanted to know what Thomas's Torrent GUI didn't work for him.

Matt and Ryan explained that this sounded like the bug identified right at the
end of SoC, which Ryan has fixed after SoC finished. They suggested Michael
should update his working copy and rerun setup.py for Ryan's packages.

Michael said he had done this last night; and was really after diffs to help
identify where the problem might be. Michael decided to follow this up later.

Matt confirmed with Michael that he was happy for Matt to move his DVB and
experimental services related components direct into the main codebase.

Michael suggested Ryan might want to look at the experimental components for
possible ideas, or to provide constructive criticism. They are experimental,
but are needed for some of Matt's DVB components and examples (such as the PVR).

Ryan confirmed that there was nothing else he wanted incorporated in this
release.

Side issues that arose:

   * Ryan commented that the project website appeared to be down.

     Matt and Michael confirmed that they had had timeouts/slow response issues
     recently too.

   * Lfelipe asked Michael to explain what he meant by a graphline editor.

     Michael explained that it is a "visual system builder" - a point and click
     interface for wiring up any arrangement of components. The output would be
     the code needed to do that wiring.

     Lfelipe thought it was something similar to Gobby or Subetha and suggested
     that kamaelia could be "a nice backend for such an editor ?"

     Michael agreed, and pointed out the whiteboard provides some of that.




5. Date/Time of next meeting

Thu 28th September 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)



It was agreed to skip having a meeting next week because Matt and Michael would
both be at EuroOSCON / bi-monthly meetings.

Moved forwards from the Friday because Michael explained he would likely be
travelling.

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060915 ======
