====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060706 ======

1. Note of Agenda

2. Participants

Participants: Matt, Ryan, Devendra, Michael
Attending: G0SUB, Uraeus

3. Activity Reports

Matt:

    DONE: (all in sketches)
        better DVB Now and Next change detection
        Reformatters to make DVB tables human readable (tables: NIT,SDT,PMT,fullEIT)
        made component that tunes to the audio and video streams for a *named* channel (MagicTuner.py)
        experimenting with services in Kamaelia
    BLOCKED:
        BBC appraisal, barbeque, visitors
        Won't change main codebase due to lack of svn notifications
    TODO:
        sign up for euro oscon
        continue with DVB components
        experiment with ways to make services shutdown & use local trackers
        review/revisit experimental Timer component

Devendra:

    DONE:
        Added Stream Cipher
        Added addtional encryption moes OFB, CFB
    TODO:
        Add Public Key Protocol ciphers
        Create components for Secure Key Exchange
    BLOCKED:
        Poor Documentation (pycrypto module)


Michael:

    DONE:
        Changed repository over to use SVN instead
        Restructured repository
        Reviewed the updated code from Ryan
        Summer of Code reviews
        Chased legal regarding contributor agreements
        More tests with exogenous style components
    TODO:
        Fix the win32 pygame issues
        Test release on GP2X, Mac OS X
        On the bliki: Describe the requirement for the Database component
        Write detailed design document for Proper Macro
        Fix throughput & capture issues for Alsa
        Write up what we want from the website & release going forward.
        Write up monthly notes and meeting notes from the day HDD drive died.
        Write presentation for OSCON
        Converge Whiteboard & Show
        Reply to Gangadhar
        Create public todo list
        Investigate pygame issues
        Update website with Ryan's change
        Look into 100% cpu issues and client connection handling.
    BLOCKED:
        Hard drive scragged, awaiting results from disk recovery firm
        Macro stalled

Ryan:

    DONE:
        IcecastClient (aka SHOUTcast client),
        Rewrite of HTTPClient to use Carousel (cleaner code, now supports
            HTTP redirects as a result),
        POST (uploading) support in HTTPClient,
        'stepwise' output from HTTPParser ([header, chunk, chunk, ..., done]
            rather than whole response in one msg),
        Partially completed modulisation of HTTPServer's request-handling,
        Documentation of some of my components
    TODO:
        More documentation,
        tests for lots of my components,
        HTTPServer support for the updated HTTPParser,
        Stepwise HTTPServer request-handling,
        Reconnecting TCP client or similar for kambot,
        Resuming support for TorrentClient,
    BLOCKED:
        Unsolved 100% CPU bug in HTTP example eating my time

4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 SoC progress check

Michael noted that it looks like most people are either on target with
their project, ahead or have had their work refocussed towards something
acheivable. Summer of code assessments have been "done", but the deadline
to complete them has changed to 10th July.

The reason for the change to the 10th July is because SoC admins have no
way of seeing if all mentors have completed their assessments. It's worth
noting that if you're blocked with something, you need to realise that
generally speaking you do have the capability to work around it - that's
really the point of the CHAOS branch (Even if no-one's felt a need to
instantiate it yet :-)

Basic idea for the CHAOS branch is to treat the codebase as you would a
wiki -- just edit cf
   * http://kamaelia.sourceforge.net/KamaeliaProjectDevelopment.html

Michael noted that the CHAOS branch is not a candidate for release by BBC
people however it can be obviously released by others. Devendra queried
the contributor agreement, ryan noted that we're still waiting for BBC
machinations to finish.

Michael noted that if this takes too long, he would actively encourage
people to use the Kamaelia.Community process for bringing in code. Obviously
for that you have to (as I understand licensing :) , I could be wrong )use
the MPL/GPL/LGPL tri-license, but that's a minor detail.

c-ryan noted actally people could pick a single one of the licenses -
eg the GPL, and Michael noted that it would be preferable for people to
actually use the LGPL since Kamaelia is after-all a library, but yes
Ryan's right.

Michael also noted that **IF** things tool long he'll:
   a) encourage the release using the Kamaelia.Community process
   b) Include them in Kamaelia Bundles (since that's mere aggregation of
      multiple things already)
   c) help out with packaging etc

4.2 Any issues now we're using SVN?

Everyone hates the lack of SVN commit notifications. Ryan's not impressed
with the web front end's reliability. Otherwise Matt liked the transition.

5. Date/Time of next meeting

Thursday 13th July 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060706 ======
