====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060629 ======

1. Note of Agenda

2. Participants

Participants: Ryan, Michael, Matt, Devendra, kambot

Attending: Oliver

3. Activity Reports

Matt:

    DONE:
        DVB: PSI/SI parsing (PAT,PMT,SDT,NIT -- Program Association Table,
            Program Map Table, Service Descriptor Table, Network Information
            Table
        ie main core ones: facilitate discovery of available streams, finding
            out what PIDs their audio/video are in, getting names, mapping to
            events, finding out about other multiplexes available and how to
            tune to them
        SoC: emailed comment to thomasfx
        Axon/Kamaelia: minor misc. bug fixes
        oh, and rewritten EIT (Event Info Table) - just started working
            last night :)
    BLOCKED:
        none
    TODO:
        better DVB Now and Next change detection
        combining new PSI/SI components for auto channel finding
        Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked to
            another
        review/merge sync boxes support for threaded component
        Mod various components to utilise inversion
        complete sync boxes support for threaded components

Michael:

    DONE:
        Released Kamaelia Bundles
        Fixed multicast of DVB
        Investigated issues of consequence of new pygame code under windows
        Continued experiments with exogenous style components
        Looked into moving alsa components into Kamaelia.Devices
    TODO:
        Fix the win32 pygame issues,
        Test release on GP2X, Mac OS X
        On the bliki: Describe the requirement for the Database component
        Write detailed design document for Proper Macro
        Fix throughput & capture issues for Alsa
        Write up what we want from the website & release going forward.
        Write up monthly notes and meeting notes from the day HDD drive died.
    BLOCKED:
        Hard drive scragged, awaiting results from disk recovery firm
        Macro stalled

Devendra:

    DONE:
        Added MAC Component
        Added basic Encryption Component
        Created initial version of secure phone
    TODO:
        Investigate Alsa components
        Add support for more algorithms to Encryption Module
        Add Stream Cipher component to Encryption module
    BLOCKED:
        none

Ryan:

    DONE:
        TorrentService, TorrentPatron (sharing a single instance of MainLine
            between multiple components),
        TorrentClient works with & requires latest MainLine release
    TODO:
        tests for TorrentClient, TorrentService/TorrentPatron,
        uploading support in HTTPClient
        check/add resuming support in TorrentClient
        reconnecting TCP client or similar for kambot
    BLOCKED:
        exams/revision,
        away on programming weekend (last weekend)

4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 SoC progress check

Michael continues to be happy with where things are going, now that he's discussed progress with everyone. Everyone's had a review of their work, all in ways hopefully appropriate to their work. Michael noted that we have to do the mentor evals this week (before July 5th), and asked people to bug him on *monday* or *tuesday*to check that he'd done theirs.

Michael noted that if anyone needed an incentive to bug him - if he doesn't do your eval, you a) don't get paid b) get booted from the programme c) therefore can't get paid the other half.

The bottom line part of the evals for everyone is this: there's a tick box that says (essentially) "should the student be booted from Summer of Code", and then answer in all cases for Kamaelia students will be "no".

Michael also noted that he hoped everyone was enjoying their projects, and that it would be nice to see a bit more discussion/update on both your project blogs, and on the mailing list, """because you're all doing cool stuff, and one of the issues people seem to have with Kamaelia is "what can I do with it", and you're all doing interesting things."""

4.2 Time to migrate to SVN?

"Yes"

"before 1.5.1 / 0.4.1 ?"

"Yes, Absolutely"

General discussion about subversion vs CVS. Decision was taken to move
to sourceforge's subversion service and see how things go. Matt also
suggested turning off CVS developer access once the change over
started.

4.3 Next bimonthy meeting

When?
Where?
Who?
What?!

What: Focus for Kamaelia 1.0 (Which I suspect is a year away)
& Macro & post-Macro ?

Michael noted that Macro is stalled completely - no feedback from the
project owner & no access to the kit. We're still doing the code for it
in the hope the kit turns up but without the kit, it's just a set of
very useful components for people to build PVRs.

When: this one ought to be mid July

Michael noted that we move the weekly meeting that week to a Thursday,
Matt suggested perhaps thursday is better generally? we've had lots of
thursday meetings. Murmerings of agreement.

Date decided was Friday 14th - ie prior to OSCON.
    [ Later note, this moved to the following week ]

Made the offer to Ryan to attend. Ryan: "thanks but no thanks".

Location decided upon was central london.

Ryan noted a good GUI would be good for Kamaelia - Michael asked Ryan to
write up outside the meaning what he meant by that. Devendra noted that
a complete app would be a great way of showcasing Kamaelia. (examples -
audio player with a GUI)

Michael & Matt asked for discussion suggestions to be sent to the mailing
list and/or bliki.

We agreed that the focus would be a Kamaelia 1.0 brainstorm day? Other random
related comments:
   * That in itself needs a little focus since a brainstorm that's longer
     than an hour is heavily draining.
   * Break down into some subtopics/activites
   * Maybe a tool that could be useful would be a long distance
     brainstorming tool
        ie 6 participants able to draw, type and talk
        my rationale is simple enough - brainstorming is limited in open
        source by the sheer distances involved. We *can't* involve devendra,
        anagha or Thomas realistically at the moment - and that's just a
        problem cause by distance

        Using a combination of existing code we should be able to destroy
        that

   * Might also be worth us inviting a few other BBC people too
   * For the record (before I forget), the speex codec comes to mind

5. Date/Time of next meeting

We decided that thursdays are generally a better option now. (Due to the
way things had worked out)

Date/Time : Thursday 6h July, 11:00am BST

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060629 ======
