====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060609 ======

1. Note of Agenda 

2. Participants 

Participants: Michael, Matt, Ryan, Thomas
Absent (notified in advance): Anagha, Devendra

3. Activity Reports 

Michael

    DONE:
        Weekly report, 1 merged inversion branch and UnixPipe into mainline,
        Assisted Ryan getting started with handling Unicode properly -
            making his HTTP code work
        Checked in changes to Mainline,
        Added backplane into mainline,
        Fixed connected socket adaptor rewrite to be low CPU usage,
        Component for asynchronous blocking calls implemented
            (eg a non-blocking DNS service)
        Proposed/agreed on components to put into RELEASE tree
        Drafted a contributor agreement, and run it past legal.
        Multicast proxying tools
        Discussed online/offline security requirements
        Discussed status and direction of work with thomas (implemented
            bouncing cubes & pastel colours),
        Discussed direction of work with anagha
        Been invited to FOOCAMP (accepted invite)
        Poster describing Kamaelia

    TODO:
        Send out contributor agreement (see blocked)
        Document, backplane & UDP components
        Sort out paperwork for conferences
        Write documentation including poster for Macro
        On the bliki: describe the requirement for the Database component
        describe desired test first rewrite of the TCP components
        Sort out next Axon/Kamaelia release
            Add & checkin the proposed components into RELEASE branch
            Build candidate release

    BLOCKED:
        Waiting to hear from legal regarding contributor agreement
        Macro kit, waiting for TL (or BB)
        Fix fedora box - requires hardware

Thomas:

    DONE:
        Input handling (ray/OOB intersection)
        Matrix and Vector classes
        3D object control & feedback boxes
        Moveable cube example
        Textured plane component
    TODO:
        More intersection tests
        Billboards
        Make Display3D handle pygame components
        Path classes for nice movement of objects
    BLOCKED:
        Exams and uni work (not totally blocked though)

Ryan:

    DONE:
        Fixed charset issues in HTTPServer
        Made kambot start up as a daemon (started with init.d script)
        Started coding multiple BitTorrent client controller (MBCC)
        Tests on chunkifier, chunk distributor and TorrentMaker
    TODO:
        Finish MBCC
        Increase status feedback from bittorrent client
        HTTP uploader (HTTP client)
    BLOCKED:
        Sourceforged cvs, exams/revision

Matt:

    DONE:
        Merged Axon tests from threads branch
        Release notes for optimisations
        Propose components for adding to next release, incl. MACRO related
        Fixed doc ref to next Kamaelia version number
        Fixed Axon tests to pass for system inversion
    BLOCKED:
        Busy due to house move!
    TODO:
        Write tests for the system inversion
        Write tests for linkage removal on component shutdown
        Audit/update documentation as needed
        Extract broken HP motherboard and issue support req.
        Set up 2nd HP tower & rackmount
        Purchase DVB-T cards for HPs
        Improve Now and Next change detection
        Reimplement synchronous boxes/linkages
        CAT needs thread safety
        Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked to
          another
        Mod various components to utilise inversion (timer component?)
        Move sys-status from Macro.py, into the introspection code.
        Improve website component documentation to include long spiely stuff
        Add polling rate reduction to Introspector (reduce CPU load)
        Allow physics to be turned off [automagically?] in AxonVisualiser
           (reduce CPU load)
        Remove inheritance from axon visualiser

Michael noted that it's preferable for the TODO list to better reflect
immediate todo's - ie the next week, possibly 2-3 weeks worth at most.


4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4) 

4.1 Release Issues

Michael noted that the remaining steps were:
   * Michael to move the agreed items into the RELEASE branch
   * Then build a candidate release.

Matt noted that short of actually releasing, the 'must haves' are pretty
much all done. Michael also noted that he could do the two outstanding
items or try and re-implement synchronous boxes. Michael noted he'd had
some interest in synchronous boxes. Matt suggested that given there was
potentially a week or two, that perhaps doing a candidate release *then*
synchronous boxes might be a good idea.

The question arised of whether the new release was checked in yet, so
Michael clarified that what's currently in the main CVS branch is
expected to be the code in the release. ie Summer of code people are
likely to be using it already.

Matt noted he intends to concentrate on improving axon tests wrt. threading
& flow control inversion over the next few days ...

Michael then clarified the release process:
   * Files get tagged being in the RELEASE branch.
       * cvs tag -b RELEASE foo
   * The easiest way in practice is to copy the file over to a check
     out of the branch and simply:
       * cvs add FILE
     on the branch which is what I actually do in practice

     No actual editting occurs on the branch. To actually build the
     release, I run 
         /Code/Python/buildKamaeliaRelease.sh
     That builds me a candidate release

     If I'm happy with that, I then run tagKamaeliaRelease.sh

     To make it so we can always retrieve earlier versions

Michael asked for any final proposals for inclusions in the release really
need to be made by early next week :)

Michael was then interrupted in the meeting by a phone call, causing the
meeting to be somewhat truncated. :(

4.2 Summer of Code

Michael noted that BBC legal had approved the changes (regarding
the contributor agreement) he'd suggested, but want to remove 2
small phrases, double check and get back to him. The result should
be one everything that everyone's happy with.

5. Date/Time of next meeting 

Fri 16th June 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060609 ======
