====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20061020 ======

1. Note of Agenda
2. Participants
3. Activity Reports
4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
4.1 Clear goals
4.2 Bugs vs New Features
5. Date/Time of next weekly meeting
Tues 31st October 2006, 11am GMT



2 Participants
Participating: MS- (Michael), mhrd (Matt), c-ryan (Ryan)
Also attending: Uraeus tav neuraxon77



3 Activity Reports

Michael:

    DONE - presentation internally
           liased with LLUP people
           wrote basic non-trial protocol demo (markov chainer)
           updated visualiser

    TODO - No commitment to Kamaelia work this week
           due to overload, but will probably work on getting website sorted

    BLOCKED - Very blocked BBC Meetings
              preparing presentations
              other project work (several days blockage)

    Also blocked next week:
        more presentations on BBC & Open source needing updating
        giving at Linux World

Matt:

    DONE - RGB <-> YUV components
           mpeg4yuv parser/outputter component
           fixed dirac bindings for dirac 0.6.0
           video content reframer for internal (BBC) project
           implement wake on message removal from outboxes (bugfix)
           investigated into BBC multicast stream bitrate fluctuations
               (for RTP work)

    TODO - finish, test and check-in wake-on-message-removal
           make more pymedia wrappers (video)
           investigate mpeg transport stream remultiplexing issues
           update kamaelia changelog wrt. recent fixes
           need to remove default queue size limits on threadedcomponent
           more website updates
           continue with DVB components
           review/revisit experimental Timer component
           Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked

Ryan:

    BLOCKED - degree :)


Matt congratulated Michael on an excellent presentation yesterday. He reckoned
it was extremely well targetted at the audience.



4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 Clear goals

Michael explained that we, as a project, suffered from problems with getting
clear direction from outside the team, and that's caused a lack of clarity of
goals (at least in communicating them).

Matt added that we're left to guess where we should prioritise our resources .

However it's been very clear that if we provide something clear for people to
latch onto, they can see "ooh, that's cool".

This also related to how we express this on the project website, especially as
the original project goals are now public (that of building a streaming server).

We've fleshed out the system in other areas and looked for other internal (bbc)
projects to work on ... which lead to the DVB and Macro work.

The new goal devised 2-3 months agao was to talk about the underlying technology
aims and have projects spin off from that. Specifically:

"""
   To do for software systems what IKEA has done for furniture, and spreadsheets
   have done for traditional business, but for the BBC's business of
   storytelling and distribution
"""

Michael suggested this should be adopted for the website, and canvassed for
people's opinions. He explained that having a big main goal like this, to
underpin whatever the current work is, is often a useful thing for open source
projects.

Matt and Ryan were broadly happy with this. Matt suggested that the BBC emphasis
might at first glance give an exlusionary or closed impression. Michael agreed,
and explained that he'd be removing "BBC" and making it clearer what that means
in practical terms.



4.2 Bugs vs New Features

Michael wanted to follow up on a discussion that occurred yesterday on #kamaelia
regarding getting producer components to unpause when a consumer takes a message
from an inbox.

Michael noted that this is a bugfix (restoring a feature originally in Axon 1.0)
but that yesterday's discussion was useful as it covered possible "new features"

***Ryan left the channel***

Matt agreed, and noted, for reference that the implementation he was doing would
wake all outbox owners whenever a message is taken from the inbox. This is
slightly different to the behaviour of Axon 1.0. But the important thing is that
it will always wake up components in the situations Axon 1.0 would wake them.

Michael expressed support for this position.

Matt reckoned that implementing an exact match to Axon 1.0's semantics looked
likely to actually be rather difficult and/or messy.

Michael confirmed for Matt that Axon 1.0 would wake components irrespective of
whether the linkage was synchronous (size limited) or not.

Matt expressed the hope that he'd finish debugging it today and would then
check it in as a branch, and issue an email explaining it.



5. Date/Time of next weekly meeting
Proposed Tues 31st October 2006, 11am GMT

Michael noted that he'd have very little time to actually work on Kamaelia
during next week, so it would not be worth having a meeting during next week.

He also noted it would be halloween!

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20061020 ======
