====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20061121 ======

1. Note of Agenda
2. Participants
3. Activity Reports
4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
   4.1 Bi-monthly meeting agenda
       Suggestions: Review of the year, Project Task Pages, Macro
5. Date/Time of next weekly meeting
   Friday 1st December 2006, 11am GMT



2. Participants

Participants: mhrd (Matt), MS- (Michael)
Also attending: tav, Uraeus, Lawouach, G0SUB



3. Activity Reports

Michael:
    DONE - Worked on finalising the website for moving over
           requested contributor agreement from Anagha, Devendra (silence)
           Added contributor section
           Continued fleshing out website revamp
           Simplified website design
           moved office (again)

    TODO - Bi-monthly meeting
               collate achievements beforehand
           finalise macro plans
           presentation in cambridge
           also offices related stuff

    BLOCKED - website doesn't work in Safari for some reason - investigating
              out the office for 2 days coming up
              been blocked due to meetings.

    Note - Sourceforge website becoming slow

    FOLLOWUP - None


Matt:
    DONE - Added named input pipes my UnixProcess component
           Added audio processing and encoding to 'mobile reframer'
           Fixed data loss in my UnixProcess component (not mencoder's fault)
           Requested faster machine for RTP work

    BLOCKED - Secondment to (non Kamaelia) internal BBC project

    TODO - Propogate audio rate & format to output stage in mobile reframer
               (hard coded atm)
           commit mobile reframing code
           implement first cut RTP remultiplexer (simple ext. of existing work)
           investigate mpeg transport stream remultiplexing issue
           bimonthly meetup on Friday
               collate statuses of runnning/pending tasks
               collate outstanding bugs/issues


4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)


4.1. Bi-monthly meeting agenda

Suggestions: Review of the year, Project Task Pages, Macro

Michael explained that he wanted to use the meeting to take stock. He reckoned
the review would take an hour at most (just to see what has been achieved). This
would be a positive thing.

Lawouach asked if this meeting would be on IRC. Michael clarified that it would
not be - since it is a face to face meeting between Matt and Michael. Lawouach
asked for a report/notes. Michael hoped to take some.

Lawouach explained that he would be "interested in understanding what you've
addressed"

Michael reckoned that having this written down would be useful since the (BBC
internal) departmental annual review will be coming along at some point anyway.

Matt said he would pull together the statuses of his runnning/pending tasks and
any outstanding bugs/issues. Michael pointed out that the latter, in his opinon,
are project tasks in themselves.

Michael explained that he was thinking of using "the same technique for managing
outstanding projects and tasks as we do for Kamaelia building/design"

He explained that this would "gives us a flat project structure (so we can see
everything outstanding) But also allows us to deal with dependencies."

He reckoned it would make it simpler to address questions like "So, what
happened to P2P & multicast". The idea though is for it to be helpful, not a
hindrence

Matt was not sure he completely understood, so Michael clarified:

"""
Basically, there's too much stuff to do and it does need to get done. So I'm
trying to find a way to manage that, whilst also realising I don't actually know
of a good way of managing it since it is actually a research project.
"""

Matt and Lawouach ventured that this boiled down to having the courage to say
"no" to some work requests.

Michael explained that "people like to know why sometimes. Also, there are times
when things do need to get put down temporarily, and it strikes me as a way of
managing it"

Michael explained that he wanted to incur a concept of "debt" onto projects -
taking technical debt and extending it.

By Technical Debt, Michael explained, that he meant, for example, being able to
say "I can develop this in 2 weeks, instead of the 4 it will need to test
properly; but that'll incurr you a testing/bugfixing debt of 4-6 weeks later
down the line". Time == Money, so a time credit of 2 weeks means they have to
pay back 4 weeks later, costing them an extra 2 weeks (potentially)

It's a concrete way of putting forward "This is what doing the quick hacky
version will cost you in future". Its also a way of being able to say "the
guilty party is the person who made the bad judgement call"

Michael reckoned that this doesn't just apply to technical things; but that it
can apply to things as basic as project management. It could be treated like
any other engineering problem.

Michael and Matt have been saying for a long while now "we need an internal
project manager" (beyond Michael) to handle project management issues rather
than design/code/architecture.

Michael felt that some of the issues at the moment (from a BBC perspective) are
a consequence of that - ie the project's project management debt has reached a
level where there are problems.

Day to day and week to week management is good; but the longer term management
is less good, for these very reasons.

Michael felt that that if we sort this out, in our way, it'll be to our
satisfaction.

Matt agreed this made alot of sense.

Michael hoped that he and Matt could discuss this further at the bimonthly
meetup. He has started fleshing out the subtasks needed for P2P/multicast and
identifying what has been done towards this so far, to get a clearer picture:

"""
By creating some project task pages for it, we make it possible to say "this is
the project stage and it can be handed off, and this is what needs doing"
ie it gives us a way of putting a sub-project to sleep as well
"""

Matt hoped that this process would result in clear prioritisation of TODOs, so
he would know "what to do next" after each task is finished.

Michael agreed and reckoned it would, since tasks and substasks could be
prioritised.

Matt clarified for Michael that he would be able to arrive after 10am for an
11am start. Michael set a finish time of 4 to 5pm, giving Matt time to catch
his return train at 6pm.

Michael also pointed out that his new room number was 1046.



5. Date/Time of next weekly meeting
   Friday 1st December 2006, 11am GMT

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20061121 ======
