====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060817 ======

1. Note of Agenda
2. Participants
3. Activity Reports
4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
4.1 Summer of Code Wrap-up
5. Date/Time of next meeting
Proposed: Fri 25th August 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)



2. Participants

Participating: mhrd (Matt), anagha (Anagha), thomasFx (Thomas)
Also attending: G0SUB, ifelipe

ifelipe expresssed the intention to leave shortly, which he then did after the
activity reports



3. Activity Reports
 
Michael is on holiday
Ryan is in Mexico
  
Thomas:
    DONE - Bittorrent GUI 
           Added fog support 
           Updated event processing 
           Added support for time based movement 
           Changed PygameWrapper functionality/appearance 
           Packaging 
           Documentation 
           Component shutdown handling 

    TODO - Polish Examples and add documentation 
           Polish documentation 
           Document MagnaDoodle.py 
           Create HTML documentation 

    BLOCKED - None

Anagha:
    DONE - Added Text based examples
           Incorporated most recent comments from Matt. 

    TODO - Add docstring comments to 
           simulator.py 
           KPIServer.py 
           Encryptor.py 
           SessionKeyController.py 
           DataTx.py 
           Decryptor.py 
           KPIClient.py 
           kpitextclient.py 
           kpitextserver.py

    BLOCKED - None

Matt:
    DONE - fixed crashing simplegame (corrupt image) 
           deprecations branch complete (Kamaelia, Examples, Tools) 
           change whiteboard from base64 to escaping 
           fixed high high processor usage issue in Whiteboard 
           check who should submit SoC work 
           whiteboard now multiplexes audio and drawing data over a single
               single TCP connection 
           recorder/player (clerk) for whiteboard 
           got pymedia working (kinda, audio only) on 64bit linux 
           gave feedback on thomas and anagha's docs 
           completed sync boxes support for threadedcomponent (in branch) 

    TODO - last minute feedback/advice for SoC work 
           submit final SoC work to google 
           sort google soc tax forms :-( 
           reduce whiteboard audio latency 
           make more pymedia wrappers (video) 
           continue with DVB components 
           review/revisit experimental Timer component 
           Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked to 
               another 
           experiment with pausing when waiting to deliver to a full inbox

    BLOCKED - deprecation branch merge to be done by Michael 

Thomas clarified (at Matt's request) that by "HTML" documentation he meant
web based docs similar to those produced by Ryan.

Matt explained he did not know how Michael or Ryan did this - eg. how they
automated the conversion from reSTructuredText to HTML.

Matt pointed out that Michael intends eventually to automate the creation of
website based documentation.

Anagha asked about docutils. Everyone agreed that the output was not very 
pretty!



4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
 
4.1 SoC progress & wrap up
 
Matt explained that he needed to sort "tax stuff for the BBC and google". Anagha
confirmed, when asked, that she lives in NY in the US.

Matt reminded everyone that the deadline for SoC is Monday 21st, so all SoC
students would have to finish their code before then, so he can put tarballs of
their code somewhere for google to retrieve.

Matt asked for estimates of when Anagha and Thomas would finish.

Anagha
    * Has finished coding, and will finish documentation by tomorrow (Fri 18th)
Thomas
    * hoped to have mine finished today (Thu 17th) midnight

Matt explained that he intends to create the tarballs on Sunday.

He explained that finishing on Friday (if possible) would be good as it gives
time in case you suddenly realise you need to make a last minute change

Thomas said that his code will be finished for SoC but he then has other ideas
he would like to play with after Soc. 

Matt asked anagha and Thomas to email ms_soc@... **and** me@matthammond...
when they are both happy with their code. He asked them to include a list of the
directories they want included in their tarballs.

Matt said he would not be:
    * offline: Friday evening or all day Saturday 
    * online:  Friday daytime, and most of Sunday


If SoC students need to contact him, use both his email addresses

Matt confirmed with Anagha, that despite falling into Anagha's email spam
filter, she was able to read his comments.

Matt commented that he had seen Anagha checking in KPITextClient.py and 
KPITextServer.py
    * Anagha confirmed that these work under win32 using pymedia 1.3.7.2

Matt asked what Anagha intended to do with AudioClient.py, AudioServer.py and
AudioLib.py

Matt asked if Anagha still wished to include them (Matt's email comments to
Anagha has suggested she may wish to remove them). Matt said it was up to her.

Anagha said she was still thinking about it, but would decide tomorrow. She also
said she would check it on Linux after she was done documenting.

Matt asked in AudioLib.py was her own code. Anagha said it was mostly, but that
she had taken AudioDecoder and SoundOutput components from Sketches/MH/pymedia.
She said she modified them to cope with pymedia API changes.

Matt pointed out that Anagha should have left the Kamaelia/BBC attribution 
comment block on the parts of the code written by Matt. Anagha agreed to add it
in.

Matt explained that she should have talked to him first:
    * that code is now out of date
    * Matt has been working recently on newer code (that doesn't crash in Linux)

Matt also explained that code in /Sketches is rough and experimental. People
should therefore not use code in people's directories without talking to them:
    * it might be broken, or out of date (Anagha did not realise this)
    * someone reading the svn logs, might think it looked like she was claiming 
      to have written that code herself

Matt reiterated that this is one of many reasons why it is important to stay in 
contact (email, IRC, etc) and talk to others about what you're doing.

Matt pointed out that things are also in /Sketches because they are not yet
ready to be in the main distribution. If the pymedia code was ready, it would
be in /Code/Python/Kamaelia or someone's Community directory.

Matt reiterated that if Anagha chooses to leave this code in her packages then
should add appropriate attributions for SoundOutput and AudioDecoder components.

Matt also expressed his personal opinion that they should be removed (because
pymedia support in Kamaelia is not ready yet)

Anagha explained that she was "just trying something and so checked it in.
it's fine if it's not included."

Matt pointed out that it would have been better to place it outside of the
KPIPackages directory - as Matt thought that anything in those directories is
considered part of her final distribution.

Matt thanked both Anagha and Thomas for their hard work over the summer. He
commented that their work was helping *alot* to push forward the project (by
adding new facilities etc). He also commented that it is great to have new
people around and contributing.

Anagha and Thomas thanked Matt and Michael for the support they have provided.

Matt hoped that Anagha and Thomas would still be around post SoC.



5. Date/Time of next meeting 
Proposed: Fri 25th August 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100) 

Matt explained he couldn't make next Thursday (hence Friday).
Matt pointed out Michael would be back by then.

Anagha said she wouldn't be able to attend an 11am BST session.

Thomas pointed out he would be at work (but that evening meetings (~6pm) might
be possble to attend)

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060817 ======
