Meeting length: 36 minutes, record time :-)

====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060601 ======
1. Note of Agenda
2. Participants
   Participants: Matt, Michael, c-ryan, devendra_l, thomasFx, anagha
   Attending: tav, Uraeus
3. Activity Reports

Michael.
   DONE - /Rewrote/ internet subsystem to work with selector, including a fair rewrite of CSA,
          *** NOTED IN SOURCE THAT THE SELECTOR HAS A GENERAL ISSUE AFFECTING SERVICES ***
          Follow up with SM regarding one sider,
          Weekly meeting notes, Monthly report,
          Instigated Kamaelia.Community
   TODO - Merge inversion branch onto head (3.5 KLOC patch to merge)
          Merge tests from threading branch
          Write detailed design document for Proper Macro
          Sort out next Axon/Kamaelia release
          Audit/update documentation as needed
          Propose candidate components to move into release tree.
          Improve website documentation - long spiely text and how its used.
   BLOCKED - Bank holiday weekend, earlier meeting than usual, No access to Macro
          kit, bbc.kamaelia.org still not accessible inside BBC(!), several day
          long meetings this coming week. Sourceforge down again for 1/2 day.

Matt:
   DONE - Soak test the fixed programme transcoder
          Check RF signal in office (borrowed kit to do this)
          check monthly report for MS
          comment on Kamaelia.Community stuff
          bugfix: add linkage removal when components shutdown
          Added to Axon & Kamaelia changelogs
   TODO - Release notes for optimisations
          Propose components for adding to next release.
          Audit/update documentation as needed
          extract broken HP motherboard and issue support req.
          Set up 2nd HP tower & rackmount
          Purchase DVB-T cards for HPs
          Improve Now and Next change detection
          Reimplement synchronous boxes/linkages
          Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked to another
          Mod various components to utilise inversion (timer component?)
          Move sys-status from Macro.py, into the introspection code.
          Improve website component documentation to include long spiely stuff
   BLOCKED - debug soft demuxer segfault (unable to find fault)
          Write tests for the system inversion (waiting for merge of threads branch tests)
          Write tests for linkage removal on component shutdown

Thomas:
   DONE - Controlled cube example
          Basic 3D framework
          Class for generating transform matrices
   TODO - Input handling (intersection)
          Interactive Components
          Map pygame surfaces on ogl planes
   BLOCKED - I have had exams until wednesday

Devendra:
   DONE - Blog http://dengineer.blogspot.com/
          Commit of MiniAxon
   TODO - Further study of components
   BLOCKED - Exams

Ryan:
   DONE - Chunkifier, basic wrapper component for BitTorrent client, .torrent-file maker
   TODO - Multiple BitTorrent client component, HTTP uploader (HTTP client)
   BLOCKED - Exams/revision

Anagha
   DONE - (( Got into the loop with Kamaelia project ))
   TODO - Miniaxon
   BLOCKED - None

Michael & Matt agreed for Matt to merge his tests for the threads branch,
despite /general/ policy not to merge your own code. This is intended to
unblock Matt. Matt noted that it'd be done same day.

4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
4.1 Release Issues

Michael noted the inversion branch is now closed.

For those present he also summarised what this means:
    ... the inversion means a flip of control in the scheduler rather than
        busy waiting checking everything it and other components can run in
        threads and wake each other up using Thread.Event objects, Which
        means when there's nothing happening things really sleep, much
        like using semaphores.
        
        In terms of components, things generally remain the same, except
        that when you call self.pause() and yield you'd really better mean
        it now :) , since the system WILL pause and not wake up unless you
        have something in a thread :)

Matt also noted that the
    * current implementation based on queues of wake & pause requests, but
      that can/might-well change".
    * many components still need to be modified to make full use of
      this - eg. file reading components still busy wait

Michael also noted that as a result, any changes to the core should be
developed in sketches now for the moment until merge is complete.

Michael also asked people to consider proposing for the release tree items
which they rely on. The way to do this is to add the following string to
the end of the file you'd like to see in the release:

   # RELEASE: initals

Nothing in sketches should be proposed at this stage
   - Exception from discussion: Backplane.py, include the sketcher's mods

Michael can then review and move into the release tree or not as makes sense

After reviewing the release checklist, we noted that the release checklist now
looks like this:

    MUST HAVES
    
          Sort out next Axon/Kamaelia release
    DONE  Modify internet subsystem to be compliant with selector changes
          Merge inversion branch onto head
    DONE  add linkage removal when components shutdown
          components that Macro.py depends on should be included in the release, even if we tag them as being experimental
    DONE  Anybox problem - looks at final destination inbox in a passthrough chain, this is broken :)

    WOULD LIKE TO HAVES
    
          Now and Next change detection needs to distinguish between programme update and programme junction.
    DONE  Move threading branch axon tests to right location & notify Michael.
          Merge tests from threading branch
          Write tests for the system inversion changes
          Synchronised boxes need reimplementing
          Many components don't play nicely with the inversion right now due to busy wait.

          Audit/update documentation as needed
          Propose candidate components to move into release tree.

Matt noted he'd tag macro related components in the manner described above.
First 2 items on the MUST HAVEs are assigned to Michael.

Michael noted that he needs to do this:
   * Add - c-ryan's change to handling of TCP socket options

Matt/Michael noted we're still on target for a fast release.

Michael again called for people to review documentation, and provide
patches & rewrites where possible.

Decision was made to include UnixPipe & Backplane to the release.
(Discussion over backplane was longer and really finished outside
the meeting)

A warning needs to be added to Backplane to warn it may need further
changes.

4.2 Summer of Code Community Points

Kamaelia.Community

Michael noted he's asked for feedback on the mailing lists, but have
not had any as yet, aside from Matt, and that he'd really like it.
and he's waiting for more feedback before responding.

Michael quashed discussion of the proposal in the meeting because he
wants detailed feedback preferably via email or bliki.

Regarding the guidelines document - the email with lots of ACTIONs for
people Michael asked everyone to review their ACTIONs again and get any
outstanding ones out of the way ASAP. He also noted he'd wasn't going to go
through laboriously again this week but will chase next week.
----------------
Licensing - appears resolved. After discussion Kamaelia.Community started.
feedback from 3 students stating their happy with BSD license to the BBC
for Summer of Code work, and happy with Kamaelia.Community for other stuff.
Precise document yet to be sent out.

Anagha also stated he's happy with this.

Michael also wanted to make the following notes:

Weekly 1 on 1 meetings appear useful so far, minor cockups on timings. Will
leave detailed status updates for SoC work for those 1 on 1 meetings.

Dedicated mentoring time is working for Michael. Appears useful for mentees
For those whose time has been/gone so far that is :)

Thomas and Anagha, who were the only ones who'd been able to take advantage
of this so far, also agreed with this sentiment.

Michael also noted he'd be tracking DONE/TODO/BLOCKED against timelines
in student proposals as well as 1 on 1 meetings, this met with general
approval.

Devendra queried whether the contributor agreement would be for SoC work only.
Michael clarified this as follows, conceptually it's a check box:
   * Everything
   * Everything relation to Summer of Code
   * Nothing

... and that the key point is that as the BBC knows where it stands,
that's fine.

5. Date/Time of next meeting
   Proposed: Fri 9th June 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)

   Devendra will be absent, but would provide action list on thu eve.

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060601 ======

