====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060512 ======

Agenda
------
1. Note of agenda
2. Participants

Participants: Matt, Michael
Attending: devendra_l, G0SUB, Mizipzor, tav, Uraeus

3. Activity Reports

Michael:

DONE - Components: DVB Multiplex (tuner)
       DVB_Demux (PID splitter)
TODO - As per list last week (no change)
BLOCKED - Missed most of the week due to leave. (Issue causing that is
          now unblocked though). (Other blockers from last week largely
          remain)
FOLLOWUP: None

Matt:

DONE - Flow control inversion - core Axon changes, plus upgrades to Selector,
       PygameDisplay and other components. 
       Installed drivers for DVB-T USB2 box.
       Obtained DVB TS and EIT specs.
       Partial parsing of EIT signalling (DVB-SI info) working.
       Arranged accom and travel for May 19th meetup.
       Added Stuart Cunningham as backup mentor for Thomas.
TODO - Finish EIT parsing. 
       Other Macro stuff
BLOCKED - Committing Inversion work (CVS failure).
        - Test code for inversion work (awaiting commits of test cases
          from threading branch)
FOLLOWUP - None

Matt asked questions briefly about the demux code. Michael clarified it
was software based, and unchecked at that stage.

ACTION: Michael asked Matt to document how to get the DVBT USB2 box working,
        Matt agreed.

4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
4.1 Progress of Macro related work (May 16th...)

Michael noted the demux & tuner code should make extracting single channels
and EIT pid simpler. Initial discussion revolved around collection of EIT
data for scheduling information. 

Matt noted that he was able to capture the information you get from now &
next, and that he'd be able to create a dictionary object with the expect
information inside. He intended to output the information from his component
whenever there was a change. The downside of this is that it can change at
other times than a programme junction - due to updates/late running of a
show. Decided to discuss that issue out of the meeting.

Michael noted he intended to reuse the blog code as a front end. Estimate
of completion of EIT information was Monday 15th due to a number of small
issues to work through.

Regarding flow control inversion work, Matt noted that the work for it
was essentially complete, and has some knockons for a number of components
that are designed to wake/sleep on external events. Most notable is the
selector. 

Michael noted that this is really because the selector is also really a
reactor, and it's about reacting to reactors - noting the pygame stuff is
also reactive. ie we have a "reactor reactor", which is useful since it
should simplify integrating other reactive systems.

Blog entry describing the major changes:

http://kamaelia.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/blog/blog.cgi?rm=viewpost&nodeid=1144936419.3.1.1

Michael summarised that we expected to have the following for the 15th:
   * Channel capture
   * Channel transcode
   * Programme event change
   * Programme information capture

Minor discussion regarding which channel to record followed.

Matt noted we need to do the following:
   * To brief Tom / give him kit/URL 
   * Need to get data to bbc.kamaelia.org

Michael finished with stating that after the 17th we want to have proper
hosting, since it's considered a major problem at the moment. Matt agreed.
This is a rapidly looming on the horizon as a project blocker.

4.2 Summer of Code

We summarised for those present the current status:
   * Had 49 applications
   * 6 junk
   * Hope to take:
      * 6 for kamaelia
      * 2 for dirac
   * Don't know the number we'll get allocated by google yet
   * We're looking to finalise our rankings before 17th
   * Then google evaluate and assign us N positions, this is based on number
     of applications, number of mentors, and what's realistic

Matt reminded people that Matt & Michael are having a face to face meeting
on the 19th and any outstanding issues we can get sorted when we meet,
but hopefully there'll be none. At the face to face meeting we'll be
re-evaluating which applications we think are appropriate. Internally
I'm also going to ask for feedback from Monday through to Weds/Thursday.

Michael also noted that whilst it was fairly clear to us which projects
we'd like to mentor, we're not saying yes/no to anyone until we know our
numbers.

Since someone may take a lack of saying no as a yes if we start saying no
to people. Whereas it might simply mean "hopefully yes" or "we haven't
reviewed your application well enough yet". Michael also noted that the
quality of applications has been extremely high and if we could it would
be really nice to mentor every one, but we don't have those resources :-(

Michael also noted:
   * The website will be updated as we hear more information
   * He's producing HTMLised versions of everyone's applications who are
     highest rated - for the website once we know who's finalised. This
     is also to show people internally the current status. 
   * Our mentoring is being watched relatively closely and if this summer
     goes well, it's /possible/ that people at the BBC may want this sort
     of thing to carry out outside of Google's SOC initiative. Not a big
     possibility at this instant, but a number of successful diverse
     projects would really encourage that possibility


4.3 CVS / hosting

Sourceforge is becoming increasingly a problem. At the time of the meeting:
   * CVS is bust
   * Email is taking *days* to get through.

Matt noted developer CVS has been down all week, and that this would make
merging/sharing code in the run-up to X-Tech difficult. We decided our
options were:
   * Give then 2 days to sort out CVS
   * Use Michael's CVS server for the next week for code sharing?
   * Move to berlios?

Matt felt we should give them the 2 days, noting emails indicate they *may*
be better in future.

Michael suggested the following way of framework of looking at the issue.
(comments interspersed)

We need to think:
   * The next week (xtech deadline)
     Matt suggested the need to (re)establish a common codebase (the
     inversion work makes lots of changes)
   * The next month (release timeframe)
   * Beyond (ongoing development - impacts summer of code)


Michael suggested and Matt agreed to discuss the next month/beyond at the
face to face meeting next week.

Due to the problems, the plans was to use a tarball of something recent as 
the basis of an interim CVS sever.

Matt noted that if sourceforge aren't sorted by the end of next week (19
May), that we should consider migrating to a different host - if we can
sort release scripts in that timescale.

Michael noted that regarding Kamaelia mailing lists he's rather hacked off
about them constantly breaking, and is really open to suggestions. There
was a discussion about what to do, but nothing concrete occurred. But there
was consensus on a problem, despite sf.net's site status doesn't indicate
any mailing list service problems.

Matt suggested a bulk email to SoC applicants about email might be a good
idea, Michael agreed. 

Summary: OK, we're agreed that we really need to discuss this next week,
         have a patch for CVS, and have an issue regarding email to raise
         with SF.net.

ACTION: set up triage CVS
ACTION: Mail people regarding SoC vs mailing list
ACTION: Look at alternative for email

4.4 Bi-monthly meeting progress

Michael noted he I hadn't booked any meeting space or similar yet.
Matt noted that from his perspective, basically, all sorted - have
arranged travel and accom.

5. Date/Time of next meeting
   Proposed: Fri 19th May 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)

We discussed this and agreed that an online meeting at this point in
time would not make sense, since it'd be during the bi-monthly meeting.
As a result we decided to delay until 26th May 2006, 11am. However
we gave anyone until Wednesday 17th to object.

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060512 ======
