====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20061110 ======

1. Note of Agenda
2. Participants
3. Activity Reports
4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
   4.1. New Website engine/wiki
   4.2. Developer Console,
   4.3. Project Direction, Goals, and Mission page - OTT or OK?
   4.4. Next BiMonthly Meeting
5. Date/Time of next weekly meeting
   Proposed Fri 17th November2006, 11am GMT
   OR: Tues: 21st November 2006, 11am GMT



2. Participants

Participating: MS- (Michae), mhrd (Matt)
Also attending: G0SUB, ben017f, matthew-p



3. Activity Reports

Michael:
    DONE - Rolled out start of website revamp:

           Wiki engine and CDML renderer from Cerenity running
           not complete until cerenity blog engine integated as well.
           Changed front page to consist of includes, and title change.     
           (Intermediate changes before full revamp)
           Created a developer console
               intended as a useful resource for kamaelia devs.
               Updated to reflect things that should be checked.
           Updated news pages
               Added note that Current Status page need updating
               Added unsuccessful, but detailed SOC proposals to the website
                   (via Projects link)
           Created initial version of public todo lists
           Captured Matt's current projects into the projects page
           Updated project direction to give an idea of current work areas
           Created first draft of a project mission, goals, direction page.
           Discussed idea of structure for Projects space for Project Task Pages
               decided on page tagging instead.
           Pulled in the Challenges into the Projects page
               as classifications of already done work in these areas
           Started documenting the work so far of P2P/Multicast island joining
               noting work already relevent done/in progress.

    TODO - Pull back together BBC plans (this doesn't look too bad actually)
           Shift revampled website over to kamaelia.sourceforge.net
           Roll out improved front page :-)
           Publicise the process for contributing to Kamaelia
               (via the website dev console) 
           Send out contributor agreement to Anagha & Devendra
           Publicise the contributor agreement
           Make it clearer and easier for people to contribute
           Project Task Pages
                Demo new to writing Kamaelia project tasks pages
                    kamaelia-style - naturally composable & decomposable
                    NB, this is much like the idea for PIPs
                Compose
                Whiteboard
                Describe the requirement for the Database component
                Describe desired test first rewrite of the TCP components
                Capture own projects
           Project direction pages
                make the fact that things reusuable should be extracted clearer
                    (thinking of the backplane)

    BLOCKED - Been ill for part of this week
              Desktop PC at work has had its display gone boom
              Discussions on wiki pages blocked
                  "cerenity" doesn't yet have integrated blog with wiki/cdml


Matt:
    DONE - Added named input pipes my UnixProcess component
           Adding audio processing and encoding to 'mobile reframer'

    BLOCKED - Organising short term secondment to alt. BBC project
              Future: Secondment (Non Kamaelia) until 20th Nov

    TODO - (NB: these are for post secondment)
           fix final bugs with piping data into mencoder (switch to ffmpeg?)
           commit mobile reframing code
           get access to a more powerful box to do RTP work (BBC internal)
           implement first cut RTP remultiplexer (simple ext. of existing work)
           investigate mpeg transport stream remultiplexing issue


Michael pointed out that Matt's todo list for the next week should be empty if
he is not going to be able to work on them during the next week.



4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)


4.1. New Website engine/wiki

Michael explained this is being trialled at:

 * http://owiki.sourceforge.net/

Structurally it's pretty much identical to the current website, however there
are new areas:

 * A new 'developer console' area:
       http://owiki.sourceforge.net/Developers/

 * List of active projects or fleshed out ideas for projects:
       http://owiki.sourceforge.net/Developers/Projects

 * Stuff that would be useful to do:
       http://owiki.sourceforge.net/Developers/Tasks

 * Specific areas where help has been specifically requested:
       http://owiki.sourceforge.net/Developers/HelpWanted

Matt, Ryan & Michael trialled this over the past week. Michael canvased for
comments on how well or not the system works.

Matt commented that he would like there to be RSS feeds, but already knows that
is on Michael's todos for cerenity. He also commented that there were a few
glitched with wysiwyg editing using opera, but that was probably the dojo
toolkit's fault.

Matt approved of the addition of developer specific stuff to the site, and
commented that he still inteded, when this becomes 'official' to start updating
Axon docs.

Michael asked if people felt it was good enough to roll out. He explained that
rolling out would unblock him from a number of tasks.

Matt expressed concern at the lack of access control on editing, but said he
was okay for Michael to roll out. Michael said it would be simple to implement.
Specifically, Matt wanted to be able to control or track, easily, any changes
made, for example, to his personal TODOs.


4.2. Developer Console

Michael requested that if anyone felt there is anything missing could they
please say.

Matt apologised that due to local network proxy problems he was not able to
access the site, so would be unable to give useful feedback at the moment.

Michael pointed out that commenting outside the meeting would be fine, and
invited people to add anything they felt was appropriate. He hoped that,
ideally, it would link to all the common tasks that are done/ought to be done.


4.3. Project Direction, Goals, and Mission page - OTT or OK?

 * http://owiki.sourceforge.net/Developers/Direction

Matt again apologised that he couldn't make useful comments due to local network
issues. He did comment that the goals seemed reasonable, but that it needs
"bringing down to earth a little - it feels like theres a gap between very high level goals/mission statements and what we're actually doing (projects/tasks)"

Michael felt that "at present ... it's too OTT BBC" despite the caveat "This
reflects the fact the project lead works at, and Kamaelia originated at the BBC"

Michael commented that the page may well have changed substantially since Matt
was last able to look. He explained that he "put in 5 basic goals":

 1. Kamaelia systems should be creatable, eventually, by a user with a similar
    level of ease as using a speadsheet.

 2. Kamaelia needs to support the various ways stories can be told and
    distributed

 3. Kamaelia must work for the average programmer as well as the
    uber-programmer.

 4. Systems should be future proofed - this is our starting point, driving many
    design decisions

 5. This all needs to be as cross platform as possible

Again, Michael invited comments to be made later outside the meeting, either by
email, irc, or on the page.


4.4. Next BiMonthly Meeting

Michael explained that, following earlier one to one discussions, and due to
various things going on, it would shifted to 24th November.

Matt confirmed this date was okay for him

Michael explained his aim before then was "to pull together the various things
we've been working on, and try to make it so that we know clearly what's being
worked on, why and how and what it enables"

He explained that the reason the projects pages lack focus at the moment, is
because the project *is* defocussed

Matt offered to investigate what precisely was required from Vali (internal BBC
possible customer). But Michael reckoned that would be an added distraction.

He explained that that is "*exactly* this sort of thing that's causing the
defocus. It's useful to get internal customers etc, but they're causing
fragmentation: Who's projects get _completed_ this way? Tom? Steve? BB? Vali?
Ours?"

Michael felt that that meant he was constantly playing catch up, and seeing lots
of empty shells. He therefore wanted the project to take stock.

"""
There's important external people as well, which are worth bearing in mind
Certain aspects of Tav's & Sylvain's ideas could be really useful for example
Since they (in conjunction with some existing work)

work to resolve the problem the iPlayer people have - which is they don't really want an *external* standalone program - they want everything to be web based.

Our tuner application idea ties right in with that, and will probably be useful for the other projects ideas we have as well
"""

Michael just wanted to make it clear that he had some very strong feelings about
direction, and being torn 4 ways by internal people *right now* is not good.
On the 30h that may add in 2 extra ways.

He also noted that that is "without doing the things *we* want to do"

He felt that unless we're clear on those, the project will disintegrate because
we simply won't have the effort which will either hurt us, or demoralise us.
Michael wanted to avoid that happening.

Michael explained that ideas regarding active projects (eg. Valis) should
therefore be added to the wiki as soon as is practical.



5. Date/Time of next weekly meeting
   Tuesday 21st November 2006, 11am GMT

Matt explained he would be busy all next week. Michael explained that he had
various commitments that would make it hard to meet before the 21st too.

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20061110 ======
