====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA SUMMIT MEETING, 20060421 ======

Agenda
~~~~~~
1. Participants
   MS- - Michael Sparks 
   mhrd - Matt Hammond
Also present:
   tav - (listening)
   bobo - (mainly chatted after meeting about interest in Kamaelia)
2. Note of agenda
3. Activity reports 

Michael's lines:

DONE - Worked on the selector
     - Documented status of selector work
     - Invesigated the feasibility of us acting as Summer of code sponsors
     - Played with Matt's new whiteboard code.
TODO - Get the selector working with shutdown properly, then todos from last
       week.
BLOCKED - Waiting to hear back final confirmation of yes/no on Summer of Code
          mentoring. 
        - Finding it a pain to find the problem with the CSA, can't use
          introspector until fixed (!)
FOLLOWUP: None

Matt's lines:
DONE - Documentation Guidelines
     - Collaborative whiteboard
TODO - Continue thread optimisations
     - Implement synchronous boxes
     - SI capture
     - Selector threading
BLOCKED: None
FOLLOWUP: None  

After reading this, Michael noted that DONE means "done this week", not
"completed this week", and as a result could/should indicate work in
progress.

4. Discussion items (3 or 4 max)
4.1 Todos from last week, any updates.

Michael noted that his Todos from the previous week have been taking longer
than anticipated. The other work is noted as being on hold until then.
Michael noted that the DVB-T card item has been reprioritised as higher
than it was.

Matt noted that synchronised box work is on hold until threading related
work is complete. Matt also noted that he's leaving the whiteboard code
for the moment. Michael noted enthusiasm for the whiteboard sketcher, both
personally and from work. 

Michael noted frustration with the networking code, stating he'd like a
test first rewrite now that the "correct" API appears to be emerging, in
the hope of simplifying changes. Not prioritised at present.
ACTION: describe as a project idea on the bliki.

Matt queried the selector status. Michael noted that the selector's status
is stable, since it was written test first.


4.2 Progress on Work needed for Macro related work. Specifically: Selector, threaded component integration, inversion of control, Merge/Review of box code. (Noting original stated interim desire/deadline) Do we do a quick inversion of Paul's code to have a rewrite of the scheduler?

The interim deadline was May 16th for multiformat encoding. 

Michael noted that he thinks May 16th is still feasible. Michael confirmed
that he has transcoding was working through a unix pipe component, but only as
a sketch. For anything to work in anger, it requires the other optimisations,
and whilst using dual CPU machines can help with the CPU usage issue, the
control flow inversion is vital. 

Specifically, the system needs to put activity generators into threads, to
allow the system to become quiescent where practical. Michael noted that
they could consider inverting Paul's code, which does some of this to an
extent, but given Matt's time estimate seemed moot (It would take longer
than the estimate to integrate Paul's code than to do the system
inversion).

Matt estimated that the thread /scheduler control inversion would be complete
early next week. Michael noted that revisiting the issue would make sense if
it wasn't complete by the time of the next meeting.
FOLLOW UP: Review this next week

4.3 Review of items created by Matt in past week, way forward.
    * Suggest 3-4 paras on the bliki. Suggest added single paragraph
      description in http://kamaelia.sf.net/Systems.html
    * Suggestion: Summer of code project

Michael noted he wanted to discuss this because the collaborative,
effectively peer to peer, whiteboard written that week was really cool,
and has some very interesting potential. Part of the reason for this is
due to working on Mac, Windows & Linux. Mac is presumed but past experience
shows this is a valid presumption (Linux and Windows known since tested).

Michael suggested that we use this as a basis for some summer of code
projects, given it's usefulness. Matt agreed. Random ideas:
   * Confirmation of working on windows, and packaging as a py2exe "binary"
     install
   * Confirmation of working on Mac OS X , and packaging as a py2app "binary"
     install
   * Nicer distribution for linux (rpms for example)
   * Server backend - live whiteboard wiki
   * Backplane as an events broadcast/subscriber with filter for headless
     server. (Applications beyond the whiteboard) Matt noted that this
    could be an interesting and meaty project.

Matt noted it really benefits from box optimisations. He also noted that he
has other ideas.  Documentation of the existing system on the bliki/site was
discussed. Matt said definitely yes to putting on the bliki, and maybe to
going on /Systems.html . The maybe was due to a partial misunderstanding
of the purpose of /Systems.html, and Matt decided to review that decision
and format of the /Systems.html page.

ACTION: Matt to document in 3-4 paras on the bliki and/or website as he
        deems appropriate.

* tav left at this point
* bobo arrived at this point.

4.4 Summer of Code

Michael noted that the reason for the bullet point was to not that he's
asked for formal approval (internally) for the BBC to be registered as a
mentor organisation for Kamaelia projects. He noted that he's getting
positive sounding noise from inside, and has agreement in principle for
this, but still a couple of hurdles to jump.

Matt agreed that summer of code was a good idea, and that he was happy to
act as a backup mentor.

Michael also thanked bobo for a couple of comments from the log the
previous day.

Michael discussed the creation of a separate bliki for project ideas, and
also to accept new ideas. Matt thought this a good idea.

We noted that the deadline for SoC is May 1st. Michael decided as a result
to consider next wednesday as a real deadline (for confirmation, project
ideas etc). Project ideas welcome in the short term on the normal blog/bliki
instead.

FOLLOW UP: sort through project ideas at next meeting

IPR issues for Summer of Code

To date we haven't had to deal with contribution issues, but have always
planned to ask for contributor agreements. Specifically this would ask
contributors to the project to grant the BBC a BSD license on their code.
The reason for this is similar to the reasons the FSF ask for copyright
attribution, but would be non-exclusive, and work for countries where
copyright attribution can't really happen due to local laws (Some
European countries).

SoC pushes this back to the fore, and Michael wanted to run this by people
in the meeting.
   * Michael thinks it's fair
   * Matt thinks it's fair
   * bobo stated that he/she didn't have a problem with the idea in this
     kind of project.
   * Tav had to go at that point, and said he'd get back to us

Michael noted that this would be needed in order to get agreement for SOC
mentoring internally, generally speaking.

Michael & Matt noted that they don't really have any options personally
since their Kamaelia work is automatically owned by the BBC, meaning we
can only release code under the license terms of the project. 

Final comment on summer of code was that any and all ideas should go up
on the project bliki which will go like some point "soon"

ACTION: Michael to setup a second projects bliki

4.5 Minor discussion of this weeks work

Michael was querying what Matt meant by "thread optimisations" confirming
that Matt meant:
  1 making the API the same as the normal API
  2 inverting control flow

Matt confirmed this. At that point michael agreed that the existing
priorities in Matt's todos were right.

5. Date/Time of next meeting

Friday 28th April 2006, 11am UK time

6 Internal Follow up

None

Specific actions arising in meeting:
ACTION: Matt to document sketcher in 3-4 paras on the bliki and/or website as
        he deems appropriate.
ACTION: Michael to setup a second projects bliki
ACTION: Describe desired test first rewrite of the TCP components on the
        project bliki.
====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA SUMMIT MEETING, 20060421 ======
