====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060713 ======

1. Note of Agenda

2. Participants
   cryan
   devendra_l
   G0SUB
   mhrd
   MS-
   Uraeus

3. Activity Reports

Matt:
    DONE:
        experiment with auto-shutting down services
        continue with DVB components
        experimenting with DL's securephone
    BLOCKED:
        bbc meetings
        reluctant to fix made codebase and/or start branches whilst svnnotify is down
        alsa+speex choppy-audio problems
    TODO:
        sign up for euro oscon
        build up services experiments into something more comprehensive
        track down alsa+speex problem
        make pymedia wrappers
        continue with DVB components
        review/revisit experimental Timer component

Ryan:
    DONE:
        Created tone generator, musical note name -> note frequency and .wav file writer components
        Basic Tk GUI component for BitTorrent
        Fixed HTTPServer to use new HTTPParser and support components as request handlers
        Found and dealt with 100% CPU bug in Selector
    TODO:
        Modules for HTTPServer
        component test scripts
        reconnecting kambot
        HTTPServer - stop sending file after a disconnect
        resuming support for TorrentClient
        shutdown support for TorrentService, TorrentClient
        unpausing of HTTPServer when its messages are delivered
    BLOCKED:
        Nope

Michael:

    DONE:
        Mainly SOC oriented, meeting with university, lots of *little* things
        Ah, I also helped anagha rewrite a bunch of code.
        Code reviewed Ryan's file reader
        Continued liasing with legal - we look like we should have a solution soonish
        Organising travel for OSCON
        Organising travel for next week

    BLOCKED:
        Meeting in london Monday
        Arranging talking related things like oscon, euro-oscon, and linuxworld
        Caught up on Friday with workshop related stuff
        Meeting with university

    TODO:
        Fix the win32 pygame issues
        Test release on GP2X, Mac OS X
        On the bliki: Describe the requirement for the Database component
        Write detailed design document for Proper Macro
        Fix throughput & capture issues for Alsa
        Write up what we want from the website & release going forward.
        Write up monthly notes and meeting notes from the day HDD drive died.
        Write presentation for OSCON, converge Whiteboard & Show
        reply to Gangadhar
        create public todo list
        investigate pygame issues
        update website with Ryan's change
        look into 100% cpu issues and client connection handling.

Matt noted that he would follow up with Ryan later regarding services.

4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 SoC progress check

Michael noted that progress seemed to be going well overall within the
revised expectations for each individual.

Ryan noted that he felt a little unfocussed. Michael noted that refocussing
back on the specific project Ryan proposed (eg streaming over torrent) would
be a good starting point. Michael also noted that he'd been holding back a
touch on guidance *because* Ryan had been producing lots of interesting
stuff. Michael noted that if Ryan was having problems with usecases - which
he feels are the best way to think of direction and focus - that he can help
there, but we'd do that outside the meeting.

Action: michael to help Ryan regain focus.

Michael also wanted to raise that due to vacation and OSCON that the amount of
time he'd be around for actual mentoring would be minimal for the final month,
and that people should take advantage of this time whilst he was around.

Michael also noted that the last two weeks should focussed around fully
documenting and packaging up. This would involve 2 things@

    a) deciding what you want to go into the main tree and putting it there.
    b) deciding what you want to have not in the main tree
       and packaging up using the Kamaelia.Community process

Matt noted that this means both components and any 'examples' built from
them. Some specific points:
Torrent code for example: 
    /Code/Python/Kamaelia/Kamaelia

Made avaiable as:
   (11:38:56) MS-: Kamaelia.Protocol.BitTorrent

   (11:39:02) c-ryan: ok
   (11:39:17) MS-: That's the sort of thing I mean for dealing with packaging issues
   (11:39:23) c-ryan: ok

Ryan's HTTP code, I'd *like* it to go in Kamaelia.Protocol.HTTP
But could also go in Kamaelia.Community.RJL.Kamaelia.Protocol.HTTP

Matt noted he'd get up to speed on everyone's code.

Michael also noted that he'd add in some import magic to allow:

    import Kamaelia.Community.RJL.Namespace

That would then allow
    import Kamaelia.Protocol.HTTP

Ryan noted he was away from 12th to 21st August meaning that for all intents
and purposes his summer of code involvement would finish on 21st August.
Michael therefore suggested that Ryan's last "coding day" should therefore
be August 4th with the final time spent on documentation.

Michael also noted that everyone is very welcome to continue coding after
SoC, since there's a reason the project says "Kamaelia Contributors".

4.2 svnnotify & The Backlog(tm)

SVN notify was becoming a problem and everyone was finding irritating.
Michael suggested the only way through this would be to formalise manual
checkin notices - by getting people to email kamaelia-list with
changes in /Code. (/Sketches too if possible)

Matt noted it's crippling not being able to see what other people are
doing, or know that they're being kept informed of stuff 

Michael offered if things continued this way to write a wrapper script
around svn to allow checkins to have manual emails automatically sent.

4.3 Project Wiki

Michael noted that he'll be migrating the website to a wiki engine very
shortly, which will initially only be edittable by developers on the
project.

He noted that it understands the same directives as the current
website and is wysiwyg using HTML as the "plain text" of the system
so much of the website will be able to migrate in. Assuming its fast
enough, I'll intend to use this after a trial period for editting
and updating the website.

Michael noted that the restriction to developers only at present is due
to the fact the code doesn't at present protect against XSS attacks. (in
addition to problems with random images, and wikispam)

Michael noted that we need greater ability to do things needs to be
devolved away from Michael since his todo list is getting silly, and lots
of that could be solved by simply making my todo list publicly attackable
by others. Or it'd make it easier for others to cherry pick something
they're interested in 

5. Date/Time of next meeting

Thursday 20th July 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060713 ======
