====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060831 ======

1. Note of Agenda
2. Participants
3. Activity Reports
4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
4.1 A few website improvements [Matt]
5. Date/Time of next meeting
Proposed: Thu 7th September 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)



2. Participants

Participating: MS- (Michael), mhrd (Matt), c-ryan (Ryan)
Also attending: G0SUB, tav



3. Activity Reports

Ryan:
    DONE - Simple SMTP server
           Local message delivery

    TODO - Guaranteed mail delivery (even if it loses power)
           DNS MX record retrieval for remote mail delivery
           Memory efficiency of mail server - 'streaming' messages in and out of
               TCP connections
           SMTP client

    BLOCKED - Away next week

Michael:
    DONE - 2/3 way through untangling deprecations (21 changes untangled so far)
           Foo camp
           Added in matt's deprecation framework
           changed the deprecation levels

    TODO - carry on and finish deprecations
           detangle the axon visualiser
           switch the axon visualiser for the topology visualiser in Compose

    BLOCKED - Foo camp, travelling, stuck in chicago

Matt:
    DONE - Rewrote RawAudioMixer tests
           documenting RawAudioMixer, Entuple, and other components
           documenting and tidying pymedia components - making ready for main
               codebase

    BLOCKED - bbc managementy stuff

    TODO - finish 'readying' pymedia components
           reduce whiteboard audio latency
           website/docs (see 4.1)
           make more pymedia wrappers (video)
           continue with DVB components
           review/revisit experimental Timer component
           Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked
           review/merge sync boxes support for threaded component
           experiment with pausing when waiting to deliver to a full inbox


Both Michael and Matt commented that Ryan's simple mail server was very cool.
Michael praised the "even if it loses power" robustness and suggested Ryan
google for approaches to programming based around crashing as they were probably
highly appropriate reading.

Tav suggested looking at:
http://blog.espnow.com/archive/2005/01/08/evolution-of-software-design/
in relation to "crash first programming".



4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 A few website improvements

Matt explained that he'd like to do a little tidying of the website before
EuroOSCON. He felt it would be good if people find it easier to find out whats
going on etc...

Matt explained that what he had in mind was not major, and wouldn't happen all
in one go. Specifically, he expressed the intention to:

    * build/revise a "project admin" style page
      bringing together a link to monthy/weekly reports, the fact that we have
      an irc channel etc
         * including moving: "/Website/t/reports/" to "/Website/reports"

    * find an appropriate places to link in some dangling pages
      eg. Documentation Guidelines etc

    * freshen the axon documentation (slightly longer term)
      Matt suspected that needs more careful thought

Michael felt a project admin page would be a good idea and suggested it should
be linked in the left sidebar. He pointed out that the filename for the sidebar
matched the pattern "*sidebar*"

Michael pointed out that the contacts/lists page already refers to the IRC
channel.

Matt explained that considering that Michael has expressed plans for improving
auto generating kamaelia docs, that maye that can be re-used for Axon docs too.

He also suggested that that would probably be a post EuroOSCON task.

Ryan said he would "like to be able to modernise kamaelia website", commenting
that "a lot of it is out of date". Michael asked him to be more specific.

Michael commented that he was well aware that lots of pages were out of date,
and pointed out that if someone identifies an issue, they should simply edit the
content and sort it out.

Matt suggested that he and c-ryan "trawl over it together, compare
notes/thoughts, come up with a plan of action". Michael said this sounded
sensible.

Ryan commented that he felt that "most of it" needed improvement, but then
listed some parts in particular:

    * summer of code page
    * news (last update was october 2005 for Kamaelia 0.3.0)

Michael asked Ryan to suggest some parts he felt didn't need modifying. Ryan
listed:

    * project blog
    * "project goals stuff"
    * Mini axon tutorial

Matt added to the list:
    * Systems
    * ToolsForTimeshifting
    * Tools
    * Macro related pages
    * Kamaelia-0.*.0-ReleaseNotes.html

Michael asked Ryan to update what he could.


Michael pointed out that he does intend to update much of the website

Matt suggested creating a screenshots page - "always good to give people
something pretty to look at". Ryan and Michael agreed this was a good idea.

Michael suggested using Thomas's code to tilt the images "30 degrees around the
y axis" before putting them up on the website. He also suggested putting them
in a frame and with a short description next to them.

Michael said that he has wanted for a while to do that for Compose, Show and
Whiteboard (as individual pages)

Matt also suggested adding a 'stuff in the pipeline' style news page too - eg.
mentioning c-ryan's mail server.

Ryan inquired as to when the website would become wiki-ised. Michael said that
he'd love to do this as soon as he can.

Ryan explained that he felt the process for updating the website was a little
tortuous - "changing the website involves editing a page in SVN, using some odd
markup I don't really know then waiting for the server to be updated to use it"

Compared to, for example, wikipedia, Ryan felt this was a slow arduous process.

Michael explained the 'odd markup' was purely structural includes (eg. sidebars)
and that the rest is HTML.

Ryan also lamented the inability to get instant feedback (previews). He also
didn't like to do stuff in case Michael didn't like it.

Matt suggested creating a /testing/ subdirectory for the website, which could
run a simultaneous copy (minus the bloggy stuff) ...

Michael commented that running a second copy should be trivial.

Matt also suggested having a special svn user for that area, so it can be used
for instant testing and commits.

Michael commented that the biggest problem is that the website is on sourceforge

Ryan added that it "would be nice if you could have a community section for the
website". Michael responded that he'd prefer the whole site to be community - he
hates division.

Michael pointed out that Ryan, and others, should make good use of the blog
space, pointing out that anyone can create posts and comment there.

Ryan lamented that there isn't info about any of his Google SoC work on the
website. Michael responded that this is because Ryan hasn't put it there.

Matt agreed it would be good to have pages documenting the bittorrent and
systems work as soon as possible.



5. Date/Time of next meeting
Fri 8th September 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)

Michael requested it be changed to Friday (was thursday 7th).

Matt was happy with this. Ryan will not be around all week, so didn't care.

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060831 ======
