====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060505 ======
Meeting Length: 41 minutes

Agenda
~~~~~~
1. Participants

Participants: Michael, Matt
Present: Ryan, G0SUB, Uraeus

2. Note of agenda
3. Activity reports 

Michael's lines:

DONE - Install debian box.
       Update BBC Research SoC page Merge of Matt's threading changes. 
       Assisted about 10 applicants with their SoC proposals, reviewing and commenting.
       Assisted Ryan getting started with Kamaelia, also enabling him as a Kamaelia Contributor.
       Documented the sketcher's architecture.
       Fielded a large number of queries relating to SoC.
       Liased with Dirac team regarding getting their SOC things up.
       Wrote up monthly report and added Ryan as a new Developer !

TODO - Turn debian box into a debian build box
       Implement basic transcoding component using the UnixPipe
       Merge Backplane & UnixPipe into mainline
       Implement subscription to multiple DVB channels
       Implement demultiplexing of DVB channels, based on R&MI's code
       Describe desired test first rewrite of the TCP components on the general bliki
       Describe the requirement for the Database component on the general bliki
       /document/ Kamaelia Macro better?

BLOCKED - Fedora box is broken - at minimum the CD-ROM drive appears to have died
          in transit (preventing the reinstall)
          Need finance code for OSCON/EuroOSCON. 
          Install fedora box -- BLOCKED
          Get "approval code" for OSCON - BLOCKED
          Get "approval code" for EuroOSCON - BLOCKED
          Install DVB-T card - BLOCKED (waiting on fedora box)

Matt's lines:

DONE - Threading optimisations
       Merged Michael's "Selector" improvements.
       Sketches for flow control inversion
       Google SoC project ideas & some followup discussions
       Developer tarball for SoC.
TODO - Flow control inversions
       Setup DVB receiver
       DVB SI data capture
       Arrange accom & travel for May 19th meetup.
BLOCKED - Flow control inversion (awaited merge of threading).

4. Discussion items (3 or 4 max)

4.1 Progress on other work needed for Macro related work (May 16th...)

Threading work is progressing well.

Michael got tied up on SoC related issues more than expected. This is
terrible timing in terms of deadlines. We're still no closer than we were
last week. Have I missed anything ?
    * Stream Capture
    * SI Information
    * Efficient transcoding to multiple formats - requires:

However in terms of dependencies, the only thing this is sitting on is
the system inversion - and Matt's code is looking good there - at least
in the miniaxon. As noted using shell outs we make some wins anyway due
to dual CPU machines.

Note that Michael will be out of the loop unavoidably for almost all of
next week.

Matt then led a short discussion on the inversions work. He noted that one
was more radical - more complex - than the other, and that he would be
choosing the simpler option. The reason was due to the fact the "clever"
scheduler is a bigger change with more knockons due to the common use of
self.pause(). 

The use of clever scheduler will in all likelihood have benefit for systems
with large numbers of components. Michael noted a way to mitigate this,
but noted that the decision was sound and to discuss outside the meeting.

Michael again asked the question of May 16th being doable, given we have
single channel capture, and can take SI information from almost any source -
even if it meant 10 minute/30 minute slots.

Matt suggested the inversion should be doable "quite fast".

Based on this the feeling was that May 16th is doable.


4.2 Summer of Code Issues

Today is the last working day before the deadline, realistically speaking.
Michael is out next week, meaning last minute applicants will in all
likelihood have missed their opportunity for review of their application.
Confirmation that Matt is backup. Intent is to hope to take 3-5 applicants
for Kamaelia work based on applicant self sufficiency (ie just needing
mentoring rather than hand holding all the way through).

Been impressed by the quality of some of the applicants and sadly stunned
at others. Looks like at least one of the core project ideas, possibly 2
may go through.

Other:
   * Cannot mentor all day every day as have done largely this week, it
     harms productivity way too much.

   * Decision: Each mentee will have 2 allotted hours per week for questions
     and answers. These will be at the start or end of the working day to
     match the mentees timezones. Eg India could be 9am UK time, USA could
     be 5-6pm UK time. (This guarantees a time for a mentor to be available
     for questions in addition to any general question times)
      * Michael noted this is similar to the amount of time you would get
        from a supervisor at a university, hence seeming reasonable.

   * To assist, mentees within the appropriate timezone capture will be
     asked to attend the weekly online IRC project meetings

   * Does not mean that questions on the channel won't be answered, but
     if people being mentored could group questions together, that would
     be great.

   * Also going to ask (request, not require) mentees to run a project
     progress blog, and to publish the rss feed of that to planet.python.org.
     Project blogs should be updated regularly, preferably daily or every
     other day. Michael noted this would help participants formulate good
     habits.

     Matt noted that this could also be used to review progress as part of
     the weekly meetings (DONE, TODOs, etc)

Michael then asked if there was anything else. 

Matt noted that everyone involved should try to put more complex questions
and issues on the mailling list. The reason for this was because come
questions and issues can benefit from being thrown out to a wider
audience.

Matt also wanted to clarify that he was acting as a backup mentor, not
a primary mentor. This means he is unlikely to just "jump in" at any
point in time. However he does need to know what's going on - so he will
be watching IRC etc to keep tabs. He also wants to be cc'd on all
correspondence to Michael regarding Kamaelia. However, do NOT contact
Matt in the first instance.

If after a reasonable period of time (1-2 WORKING DAYS) you don't get
a response, pinging Matt is fair. Generally speaking however all questions
not asked on IRC (or not answered on IRC), should be directed to the
mailing list kamaelia-list@lists.sf.net, since that is it's purpose
for existence.

Michael noted for those curious that Matt's time is not 100% allocated
to Kamaelia work, so its extremely unfair on him for his involit to be higher
than that.

4.3 Bimonthly meeting progress, agenda items

For the people present who are new I explained the purpose of the
bimonthly meets - same reason as python sprints. See also:
   * http://kamaelia.sf.net/KamaeliaProjectProcesses.html

The next internal meeting is May 19th.

We discussed that we should discuss what we want Macro to do by June 30th
"What's the deliverable" ("Rack mountable software" was a phrase I've come
up with. Can we do better? Will people understand that?)

Matt noted that he agreed with both discussion items - specifically because
Macro is *a* deliverable, not these deliverable. Matt queried where this sat
in the SoC timetable. Michael noted that this was the end of the week that
mid-program evaluations had to be done.

Matt added an item for May 19th: review SoC applications status and make
any final decisions specifically for last minute refinements and any final
submissions/paperwork needed. Michael noted he expected a flurry of
applications at the weekend.

Minor discussion on the phrase "rack mountable software". Matt thought
it could be miscontrued as hardware, then changed his mind, then decided
to think about it. Realised that it was partly aimed at removing someone
elses (R) from the main analogy. Also suggested "bolt-together software".

Michael also noted that one of the aims was to change perception from 
toys to tools in users. For example people generally don't think of using
mindstorms as a control system for a production system. Also the first
question often asked of any server kit or machine room intended kit is
"is it rack mountable".

Matt noted not everyone understands what a rackmount is.

Michael summarise the discussed agenda as follows:
   * What (specifically) we want Macro to do by June 30th
   * "What's the deliverable" - "Rack mountable software"
   * Review SoC applications status
   * Something fun :)

Michael noted that this is a brainstorming and review mixture - after all
"by June 30th" means thinking beyond that date and then reining in for
realism.


5. Date/Time of next meeting:

   * Friday 12th May 2006, 11am UK time

Meeting closed after 41 minutes.
====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060505 ======
