====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060810 ======

1. Note of Agenda


2. Participants
Participating: mhrd (Matt), c-ryan (Ryan)
Also attending: G0SUB, ifelipe, Uraeus
Apologies: Thomas, Anagha


3. Activity Reports

Michael is on holiday


Ryan:
    DONE - online documentation
           READMEs

    TODO - get constructive criticism from Matt,
           component test scripts

    BLOCKED - Will hopefully be away in Mexico from 12th August


Matt:
    DONE - integrating speex audio into the whiteboard
           adding support for audio >2 peers to whiteboard
           pymedia audio resampler component
           wrote audio mix components
           more deprecations
           experimented with controllable warning levels for deprecations
           looking over anagha and c-ryan's code/docs

    BLOCKED - deprecation branch merge to be done by Michael

    TODO - finish deprecation checks of /Code/Python/Kamaelia/Examples/
           reduce whiteboard audio latency
           change whiteboard from base64 to escaping
           find high processor usage issue
           make more pymedia wrappers (video)
           continue with DVB components
           review/revisit experimental Timer component
           Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked to another
           review/merge sync boxes support for threaded component

Anagha (submitted earlier by email):
    DONE - KPI Framework. 
    
    TODO - Integrate with networked components. (Simple Streaming
           Server)
           Update code with comments.
           Update Documentation.
           Incorporate comments from Matt.
 
Thomas (submitted earlier by email):
    DONE - Reimplemented pygame component support
           Reimplemented pygame wrapper
           Added support for costum viewport
           Packaged files
           Interactor base class + lift interactor
           Started checkers boardgame
           Container component
           Started documenting

    TODO - 3D GUI for Ryans bittorrent package
           Finish checkers boardgame
           Documentation
           Packaging

Matt commented that he really needs to make a dent into some of those old TODOs instead of adding new "just-jobs" all the time 


4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 SoC progress & wrap up

Matt noted that the deadline for submitting code to google is the 21st.
   * code has to be ready before then.

Matt suggests:
   * in Ryan's case that's before he goes on holiday! Today if possible - good to have a day or so breather
   * thomas & anagha (if you're reading logs): suggest aiming to finish on Friday 18th
   * that gives time for any last minute checking you might want to do
   * and gives Matt/student/Michael time to be incompetent about submitting the code 

Ryan said he'd try to achieve that.

Ryan asked if the students have to submit code themselves.
   * Matt doesn't know but will find out

Matt commented that he'd probably be really extremely pleased to send what Ryan has done so far to google, right now
   * Ryan agreed.

Ryan said he'd probably remove the TorrentSeeder example. Matt asked why, and Ryan explained because it doesn't work:
   * it's a question of information
   * it doesn't support a nice pipeline model very well
   * FWIW its not working isn't the fault of the components it uses

Matt suggested discussing it further after the meeting. Ryan agreed.

Matt asked Ryan why he put down "component test scripts" as a TODO. Ryan explained he wanted to do basic (smoke) tests before the code is submitted.
   
Matt asked how that was different from the examples, or whether he was actually talking about full unittests. Ryan explained that
   * a few components don't yet have an 'if __name__=...' bit at the bottom
   * and that he wasn't going to be doing unittests - not enough - would take to long
      * Matt agreed.
   * "I just don't want to submit code that dies when run"

Matt responded that
   * google want the code primarily to do some statistical profiling/data mining
   * we (kamaelia) will get the most short term benefit out of there being working examples and docs so we and other people can pick up your stuff and incorporate it into their systems
   * he fully understood a desire to not give them broken code! (pride in code is a Good Thing)

Matt expressed the hope that  we can get the contributor licencing sorted at a later (not too later I hope) stage and roll Ryan and the other's work into the main codebase ... as it adds huge swathes of functionality

Matt comment he's also very pleased with what Thomas and Anagha have achieved too

Matt confirmed with Ryan that everything for google / Kamaelia.community is in RJL/packages.

5. Date/Time of next weekly meeting
Thu 17th August 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)

Ryan is on holiday!

Matt hopes Anagha and or Thomas can attend the next meeting.

Matt is very happy to change the time next week if it means we can have both of you in the meeting together

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060810 ======
