====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060908 ======

1. Note of Agenda
2. Participants
3. Activity Reports
4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
4.1 What to discuss or do at bi-monthly meet up
5. Date/Time of next meeting
Proposed: Fri 15th September 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100) ***changed***



2. Participants

Participating: MS- (Michael), mhrd (Matt)
Also attending: Uraeus



3. Activity Reports

Michael:
    DONE - Finished deprecations
           chased legal regarding contributor agreement
           started detangling the visualiser

    TODO - Finish detangling the axon visualiser
           switch the axon visualiser for the topology visualiser in Compose

    BLOCKED - Seem to have had time eaten away by gnats this week

    FOLLOWUP - yes

Matt:
    DONE - pymedia audio components tidyup
           removed whiteboard audio latency bug
           website improvements:
               added & updated project admin pages
               updated sidebar
               updated News
               updated SoC pages
               updated documentation guidelines
               updated project development page
               experimental low pass audio filter

    BLOCKED - various BBC meetings

    TODO - add docstrings to pymedia components
           more website updates!
           make more pymedia wrappers (video)
           continue with DVB components
           review/revisit experimental Timer component
           Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked
           review/merge sync boxes support for threaded component
           experiment with pausing when waiting to deliver to a full inbox



4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 What to discuss or do at bi-monthly meet up

Matt asked if Michael had thoughts on what we could do? For example: tutorials
with people, or development sprints.

Michael replied that he didn't have any firm ideas yet. He pointed out that the
core aim would be to help people get started with something, and that this was
best done in the context of a general focus.

Some possibilities that were suggested
   * Write an online game
   * serverless multiway text chat
      * michael pointed out that adding text chat to the whiteboard would make
        it much more usable for people without tablet pc's (ie. most people). It
        would need a simple user greeting mechanism (so you know who is saying
        what)

Matt and Michael agreed to discuss this over the next week and decide at, or by,
the next weekly meeting. Matt was happy for this to be decided, at worst, during
the conference week, although a decisison sooner might help encourange Ryan to
attend, as would funding the trip:

Matt asked if Michael knew whether we would be able to fund Ryan attending.
Michael said he wasn't sure yet, and suggested discussing it offline later.



5. Date/Time of next meeting
Fri 15th September 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)



====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060908 ======
