====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060526 ======

1. Note of agenda
2. Participants
Participants: Matt, Michael, c-ryan, devendra_l, thomasFx
Attending: G0SUB, Uraeus

3. Activity Reports

Michael
       DONE - Update BBC Management on on SoC
              Communicate results of SoC to students (significant time drain)
              Turned debian box into a build box
              Discovered DVB-T card couldn't fit
              Reinstalled as local Macro dev box
              Wrote up bimonthly meeting notes
              Created draft new website
              Ran new description by specialism manager

       TODO - Merge inversion branch onto head
              Merge tests from threading branch
              Write detailed design document for Proper Macro
              Follow up with SM regarding one sider
              Sort out next Axon/Kamaelia release
              Audit/update documentation as needed
              Propose candidate components to move into release tree.
              Improve website documentation - long spiely text and how its used.
              Weekly meeting notes
              Monthly report

       BLOCKED - Debian box
              DVB-T card didn't fit
              Matt debugging candidate release branch

Matt:
       DONE - Fixed Anybox (anyReady) problem
              Improved efficiency of pyrex DVB demuxer
              Created rough tarball for mplayer with the right codecs
              Moved private_MH_axon_threads branch axon tests to /Tests
              Debugged Macro.py/selector/pipethrough
              Purchased and set up RF distribution h/w in my office
       
       TODO - Soak test the fixed programme transcoder
              Propose components for adding to next release.
              Audit/update documentation as needed
              Write tests for the system inversion changes
              Set up 2nd HP tower & rackmount
              Purchase DVB-T cards for HPs
              Check RF signal in office (borrowed kit to do this)
              Improve Now and Next change detection
              Reimplement synchronous boxes/linkages
              Mod various components to utilise inversion (timer component?)
              Move sys-status from Macro.py, into the introspection code.
              Improve website component documentation to include long spiely stuff
              bugfix: add linkage removal when components shutdown
       BLOCKED - Purchasing delays on RF h/w held up debugging work

Devendra:
       DONE - Subscription to all mailing lists
              Completed other formalities as mentioned 
              in intial mail sent by Michael
       TODO - Start a blog.
       BLOCKED - Further study of components (Due to upcoming exams)

Thomas:
       DONE - completed Mini-Axon Tutorial
              played with python & opengl
              installed togra
       TODO - become famliar with togra
              figure out how to realise space manager and components
       BLOCKED - busy learning for exams and doing related work until wednesday, 31st

Ryan:
       DONE - Working HTTP Server, IRC client and logger
       TODO - play around with wrapping C++ for Python
       BLOCKED - nope

Note: Devendra's Exams finished on June 9th - will aim to do what's possible
before then, but will be largely blocked until then. Work done before SoC
started helps mitigate this.

4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
4.1 Release Issues

Michael provided background to the SoC attendees regarding the release
by June 15th. Specifically to consolidate recent work, and recent
optimisations work.

Matt noted he's in favour of a fast release, patching any unexpected
holes with incremental releases. Michael concurred. June 15th is the
cutoff point.

Ryan proposed including the Lagger component in the main release tree.

Michael then posted the release check list, which was updated. The following
consolidates the discussion:

MUST HAVES

***   Sort out next Axon/Kamaelia release
***   Modify internet subsystem to be compliant with selector changes
***   Merge inversion branch onto head
***   add linkage removal when components shutdown
***   components that Macro.py depends on should be included in the release, even if we tag them as being experimental
      Anybox problem - looks at final destination inbox in a passthrough chain, this is broken :)
      (11:09:48) mhrd: change self.dataReady() to examine only storage directly local to the inbox

WOULD LIKE TO HAVES

      Now and Next change detection needs to distinguish between programme update and programme junction.
      Move threading branch axon tests to right location & notify Michael.
      Merge tests from threading branch
      Write tests for the system inversion changes
      Synchronised boxes need reimplementing
      Many components don't play nicely with the inversion right now due to busy wait.

      Audit/update documentation as needed
      Propose candidate components to move into release tree.

The critical path items left to do have been marked ***, and allocation
was as follows:
   * First 3 items are to be done by Michael.
   * Last 3 items are to be done by Matt.

Regarding the linkage issue Matt agreed to branch off the inversion branch
since it's a candidate release.

Michael asked anyone who has time to help with auditing (ie reading/checking)
the documentation.

Matt noted the inversion was now stable - suitable for merging into head.
Michael asked Matt to write 1-2 sides worth of text describing the
optimisations implemented, Matt agreed.


4.2 Summer of Code

Michael skimmed through the ACTION's in the summer of code guidance he
produced for the accepted students, to see what's left that needs doing.
This should be checked against next week. If this report skips an ACTION,
it means all the attendees had done that item.

ACTION: Please provide me with username/password details you'd like for a login for the bliki
People who need to do this: Thomas, Ryan.

ACTION: Set up a blog which supports RSS, make entries at least once every 3 days (on average), and let me & Matt know where it is.
People who need to do this: Ryan, Devendra

ACTION: Decide whether you want to syndicate the feed to planet.python.org www.planetpython.org or similar (I would suggest you do).
People who need to do this: Everyone

Note about guaranteed mentor time, the agreed times were:
    Mon: 4pm Ryan
    Tue: 4pm Anagha
    Wed: 4pm Thomas
    Thur: 4pm Devendra

Michael noted that he'd like to get all SoC students as involved as he can
despite, very different, projects, but there are commonalities.

Licensing

Michael raised the issue of contributor agreement. Most people were OK
on the positive aspects in general, but wary of the BBC being able to
sell on a closed version, so wanted clarification/time to think about
things. Michael is to follow up with a plain english version of what
people were willing to agree to to the mailing this, and if people
agree then ask legal to check it, and then move on.

Michael repeatedly noted this is the same procedure as many other open
source projects that require copyright assignment (FSF, OpenOffice.org,
ASF, PSF, etc).

Thomas noted he's not familiar with licensing. Michael to follow up
outside meeting.

Question that deserves a longer response:
"are there any restrictions or any other issues with BBC that we
 should know ?"

Most people needed more time. Due to our development style, this isn't
a problem.

Welcome

Michael then formally welcomed everyone to the project, Matt agreed.
Michael also reminded people their supposed to give the project their
primary focus so that their performance can be evaluated mid term.
Michael also noted that this is obviously subject to any issues in
BLOCKED, and knowing what's blocking thing helps a lot with that.

Michael also noted that this isn't about completion, it's about how
people conduct themselves and what they produce relative to what they
say they'll produce and what's reasonable to expect.

Michael also suggested that people start by moving their project plan
into their todos and work through them and progress as quickly as their
BLOCKED's allow (as well as have a summer :)

4.3 Any other business

Devendra noted that there's an issue with google publishing proposals,
specifically to do with emails, phone numbers etc, in the proposals.
As a result Devendra noted that Michael may need to open up proposals
for editting to remove such information.

ACTION: Michael to open up apps for editting down

5. Date/Time of next meeting
   Proposed: Fri 2nd June 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)

Agreed.

Devendra noted not available for next 2 meetings. Michael to follow up
on how we track DONE/TODO/BLOCKED during that time period.

Being paid by google after all, and have to deal with this sensibly.
A student going Absent With Out Leave - AWOL has to be reported and
will be replaced by someone who doesn't. A student Absent With Leave
can be dealt with if managed appropriately - ie if progress can be
made in other ways. Michael noted this could be resolved to Devendra's
satisfaction.

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060526 ======
