====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060720 ======
1. Note of Agenda

2. Participants

c-ryan, mhrd, MS-, thomasFx
present: G0SUB, [LOGGER]

3. Activity Reports

Matt:
    DONE:
        advice/feedback/code review for anagha
        Axon.Scheduler bugfix & test code to catch it in future
        investigating bottlenecks in devendra's secure phone (alsa & speex)
        Kamaelia bimonthly meeting
    BLOCKED:
        family holiday
        BBC internal happenings
        alsa+speex choppy-audio problems
    TODO:
        integrate speex into whiteboard
        track down alsa+speex problem
        make pymedia wrappers
        continue with DVB components
        review/revisit experimental Timer component
        Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked to another
        review/merge sync boxes support for threaded component

Thomas:
    DONE:
        nothing (holiday)
    TODO:
        Code restructure
        More widgets
        Container component
        Experiment with intersection testing methods
    BLOCKED:
        None

Michael:
    DONE:
        Updated the Whiteboard to be able to edit a collection of pages. (checkpoint, back, forward) 
        Felt more natural to view it as a collection of pages than a version controlled whiteboard (subtle distinction). 
        Refactored whiteboard. Logged complaint with sourceforge regarding svn notify hooks. 
        Moved forward on the contributor agreement. It's now going to be an online form, but now have to run by the DPA Lawyer as a result. 
        Extensive discussions with Anagha. 
        Sorted out flights/hotel for OSCON. 
        Kamaelia bimonthly meeting - brainstorm. Initial draft version of a checkin script, however needs finishing (see blocked).
    TODO:
        Finish/integrate OSCON presentation into whiteboard. OSCON
    BLOCKED:
        Changes at the BBC caused distractions. Next week will be blocked by OSCON.

Ryan:
    DONE:
        Documentation, code commenting for HTTP and Torrent components
        HTTPServer - allow different instances to provide different services, minor bugfix, also should stop sending file after a disconnect now
        Handy PureTransformer (filter-style) component
    TODO:
        resuming support for TorrentClient,
        shutdown support for TorrentService,
        Request handler components for HTTPServer,
        component test scripts,
        reconnecting kambot,
        unpausing of HTTPServer when its messages are delivered
    BLOCKED:
        Too Hot!

4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 SoC progress check

Michael recapped the discussion from the previous week for Thomas, which
revolved around availability, and also noted that the last 2 weeks should
be fully documenting and packaging up.

4.2 Devolution of power


This item arose out of a misunderstanding - Ryan wasn't aware that being
a developer on the project included the ability to update the website,
amongst other things. 

Developers on the project can:
   * Create a chaos branch, and make releases of their own based on the chaos branch.
   * Everyone can post new news items
   * Everyone can update the website, and should view it as an SVN based wiki

Updating the website involves:
   * Actually pushing to the website
   * ssh'ing into shell.sf.net
   * cd'ing to /home/groups/k/ka/kamaelia

In that directory, we have:
   * hotdocs/ htdocs/

Apache looks in htdocs, which is largely empty. The reason is
because we use and error hander from htdocs/.htacess that runs
/cgi-bin/cdml-wiki/doc.py to serve pages. That script understands
the [[...][...=...][...=...] ] syntax for includes and so on.

That pulls in the contents of hotdocs, which is an anonymous checkout
of /Website, which we can locally update. (Making local update relatively
easy - which also mean editting the files on shell.sf.net is a bad idea!)

For large files we simply put them in htdocs to allow apache to serve
them directly. Examples: css, images, snapshots, etc.

Michael also noted though that for large changes, especially structural that
he would appreciate people running it by him first. Michael also suggested
the creation of a place on the website called SummerOfCode2006/ .

5. Date/Time of next meeting

Decision was: Friday 28th 1100 BST

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060720 ======
