====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060616 ======
1. Note of Agenda

2. Participants

Participants: Matt, Michael, c-ryan, devendra_l, thomasFx
Attending: salfield

3. Activity Reports

Matt:

    DONE:
        Experimental synchronous boxes for threadedcomponent (branch)
        Write tests for the system inversion
        Minor bugfixes to scheduler
        Bugfixes and improvements for vorbissimple bindings
        Synced late changes missed from flow control inversion branch to head
        prodded IT services wrt. bbc.kamaelia.org visibility
    BLOCKED:
        none
    TODO:
        Release vorbissimple bindings (update changelogs etc as appropriate)
        Write tests for the system inversion
        Write tests for linkage removal on component shutdown
        Add self.pause() support back into threadedcomponent
        Audit/update documentation as needed
        extract broken HP motherboard and issue support req.
        Set up 2nd HP tower & rackmount
        Purchase DVB-T cards for HPs
        Improve Now and Next change detection
        CAT needs thread safety
        Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked to another
        Mod various components to utilise inversion (timer component?)
        Move sys-status from Macro.py, into the introspection code.
        Improve website component documentation to include long spiely stuff
        Add polling rate reduction to Introspector
        Allow physics to be turned off [automagically?] in AxonVisualiser
        Remove inheritance from axon visualiser

Devendra:

    DONE:
        Created simple UDP component
        Draft readme file for kamaelia
    TODO:
        Create a basic security component using pycrypto
    BLOCKED:
        Setting up of developer environment (Hardware problems - Disk
        failure)

Michael:

    DONE:
        Discussed with legal changes to the contributor agreement to match
            their concerns.
        Checked in BitTorrent mainline code, and tagged as BITTORRENT_4_4_0
            - for doing diffs against with Ryan's code.
        Jim Burnes - "Control/Signals in Axon" - Replied
        Added & checked in the proposed components into RELEASE branch.
        Release details
        Build build mechanism for viewing the website offline
        Made Sketcher & Presentation tool "Show" releasable.
    TODO:
        Get release out the door.
        Deal with aftermath of release issues
        Test release on GP2X :-)
        On the bliki: 4b Describe the requirement for the Database component
        Write detailed design document for Proper Macro
        Improve website documentation - long spiely text and how its used.
        Move Alsa components into Kamaelia.Devices
    BLOCKED:
        Internal BBC meetings (taking up 1 1/2 days)
        Waiting for legal to come back with yes/no on contributor agreement.
        Macro kit, waiting for TL, BB
        Fix fedora box - requires hardware.

Thomas:

    DONE:
        Display3D handles pygame components (2D)
        Ray/plane, ray/polygon intersection
    TODO:
        Wrapper for pygame objects to show them on 3D planes
        Map 3D intersection to point on 2D surface (half done)
        Movement classes
        Billboards
        Useful example program (image viewer)
    BLOCKED:
        None

Ryan:

    DONE:
        proof of concept HTTPClient
        Separated HTTPParser from HTTPServer
        Add response and request support to HTTPParser
        Basic tests for HTTPParser and HTTPParser, websiteMinimal.py -
            barebones version of website.py suitable for any site (used
            by HTTPServer)
        TorrentClient twisted compatibility
        Increased status feedback from TorrentClient
    TODO:
        Finish multi-torrent client
        Uploading support in HTTPClient
    BLOCKED:
        Exams/revision

Michael noted that generally things are fine, but there's a little bit of
prodding in the right direction that needs to happen.

4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)

4.1 Releases

Michael thanked everyone for the feedback on the candidate release. He'd also spent
some time on building a mechanism to pull in the general docs into the release as well

Essentially it pulls in the following sections:
    Axon Examples Components.html GettingStarted.html MiniAxon.html
    Components Axon.html Cookbook.html Introduction.html
    Axon/
    Components/
    Examples/
    Axon.html
    Components.html
    Cookbook.html
    GettingStarted.html
    Introduction.html
    MiniAxon.html

Matt noted that Axon.html needs updating and michael noted that the bulk of
user level information is correct.

Michael then ran by name changes for various things.
    * KamaeliaPresent --> Show - uncontroversial
    * WhiteboardSketcher --> Whiteboard - uncontroversial
    * VisualPipebuilder --> No consensus.

(The idea is to have a single word to describe a Kamaelia Tool)

This left us with the following contents for Tools/
    PipeBuilder/
    README
    Show/
    ShowExample/
    Whiteboard/
    kamaelia_logo.png
    axonshell.py
    AxonVisualiser.py
    Show.py
    VisualPipeBuilder.py
    Whiteboard.py

Michael noted that these projects are now amassing a collection of
components that could sit in the main tree somewhere to encourage reuse.
At present the decision was to not put them in the main tree yet, but to
revisit this decision periodically.

Michael asked for comments on the new README. Matt suggested moving install
stuff to an INSTALL file. Matt made a comment on making the two sets of
examples more explicit in how they differentiate.

Thomas queried the lack of a Makefile, so Michael explained that python's
default expectation is to use a setup.py file.

The summary of must haves & would likes for the release looked like this:

    MUST HAVES

    DONE  Sort out next Axon/Kamaelia release
    DONE  Modify internet subsystem to be compliant with selector changes
    DONE  Merge inversion branch onto head
    DONE  add linkage removal when components shutdown
          components that Macro.py depends on should be included in the
          release, even if we tag them as being experimental
    DONE  Anybox problem - looks at final destination inbox in a passthrough
          chain, this is broken :)

    WOULD LIKE TO HAVES

          Now and Next change detection needs to distinguish between
          programme update and programme junction.
    DONE  Move threading branch axon tests to right location & notify
          Michael.
          Merge tests from threading branch
          Write tests for the system inversion changes
    DONE  Synchronised boxes need reimplementing
          Many components don't play nicely with the inversion right now due
          to busy wait.

          Audit/update documentation as needed
          Propose candidate components to move into release tree.

4.2 Summer of Code Community Points

Michael reiterated that components are generated from working systems.
ie Get something working, that's usable, then componentise it, then make
it possible to use those components.

Example: the bittorrent component is nice, but there's no clear description for usage
         No example of use.

Michael also noted that many components in Kamaelia's core have been
developed by "application spikes" Which means we aim to build something
simple, and then drill all the way down through the layers to build it.

Michael also noted that components are only useful if they can be reused,
and rather unsubtly reminded people that people that they should be
focussed on their projects they said they would do for summer of code.

Michael then also noted that in practice, you tend to get what's happened
with Ryan's HTTP & Thomas's 3D work both have been extremely well done and
pushed forwardbut neither have really quite followed a linear model that
devendra outlined when querying this. ie design can (and should be IMO)
top down however implementation should be bottom up, and aim for "get
something working ASAP".

Michael then also stated that  he didn't really have a huge problem with
the work people are doing, ryan's HTTP server is great, thomas's work is
cool, and what I've seen from you (devendra) is also good, and that he was
more stating a general principle at the moment, but it is one I really want
people to be aware of "How can I make an example of how this is used" partly
because that final step actually changes how you think of your code.

Michael also wanted it noted that he didn't want anyone to think I'm
dissing what they've done - I've been nicely stunned by everyone's
progress so far :-) and what's been achieved.

Michael stated that the aim for the next release was the end of August and
should focus on summer of code.

Michael then asked for similar criticism/feedback back. Ryan noted that he
would like more technical guidance. Otherwise people were generally happy.

5. Date/Time of next meeting

Thursday 22nd June 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060616 ======






















====== START OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060616 ======
1. Note of Agenda
2. Participants
3. Activity Reports

   (11:06:42) MS-: DONE - Discussed with legal changes to the contributor agreement to match their concerns. Checked in
   BitTorrent mainline code, and tagged as BITTORRENT_4_4_0 - for doing diffs against with Ryan's code. Jim Burnes -
   "Control/Signals in Axon" - Replied,
   (11:06:46) MS-: 2b Add & checkin the proposed components into RELEASE branch. Release details, build build mechanism
   for viewing the website offline. Made Sketcher & Presentation tool "Show" releasable.
   (11:06:52) MS-: TODO - Get release out the door.
   (11:06:52) MS-: Deal with aftermath of release issues
   (11:06:52) MS-: Test release on GP2X :-)
   (11:06:52) MS-: On the bliki: 4b Describe the requirement for the Database component
   (11:06:52) MS-: Write detailed design document for Proper Macro
   (11:06:52) MS-: Improve website documentation - long spiely text and how its used.
   (11:06:52) MS-: Move Alsa components into Kamaelia.Devices
   (11:06:59) MS-: BLOCKED - Internal BBC meetings (taking up 1 1/2 days)
   (11:06:59) MS-: Waiting for legal to come back with yes/no on contributor agreement.
   (11:06:59) MS-: Macro kit, waiting for TL, BB
   (11:06:59) MS-: Fix fedora box - requires hardware.


   (11:06:35) mhrd: DONE - experimental synchronous boxes for threadedcomponent (branch)
   (11:06:35) mhrd: Write tests for the system inversion
   (11:06:35) mhrd: Minor bugfixes to scheduler
   (11:06:35) mhrd: Bugfixes and improvements for vorbissimple bindings
   (11:06:35) mhrd: Synced late changes missed from flow control inversion branch to head
   (11:06:36) mhrd: prodded IT services wrt. bbc.kamaelia.org visibility
   (11:06:38) mhrd: BLOCKED -
   (11:06:44) mhrd: Release vorbissimple bindings (update changelogs etc as appropriate)
   (11:06:46) mhrd: Write tests for the system inversion
   (11:06:40) mhrd: none
   (11:06:42) mhrd: TODO -
   (11:06:48) mhrd: Write tests for linkage removal on component shutdown
   (11:06:50) mhrd: Add self.pause() support back into threadedcomponent
   (11:06:52) mhrd: Audit/update documentation as needed
   (11:06:54) mhrd: extract broken HP motherboard and issue support req.
   (11:06:56) mhrd: Set up 2nd HP tower & rackmount
   (11:06:58) mhrd: Purchase DVB-T cards for HPs
   (11:07:00) mhrd: Improve Now and Next change detection
   (11:07:02) mhrd: CAT needs thread safety
   (11:07:04) mhrd: Improve box destruction to handle when a box is still linked to another
   (11:07:06) mhrd: Mod various components to utilise inversion (timer component?)
   (11:07:08) mhrd: Move sys-status from Macro.py, into the introspection code.
   (11:07:10) mhrd: Improve website component documentation to include long spiely stuff
   (11:07:12) mhrd: Add polling rate reduction to Introspector
   (11:07:14) mhrd: Allow physics to be turned off [automagically?] in AxonVisualiser
   (11:07:16) mhrd: Remove inheritance from axon visualiser

   (11:06:38) devendra_l: DONE - Created simple UDP component
   (11:06:39) devendra_l: Draft readme file for kamaelia
   (11:06:39) devendra_l: TODO - Create a basic security component using pycrypto
   (11:06:39) devendra_l: BLOCKED - Setting up of developer environment (Hardware problems- Disk failure)

   (11:07:01) thomasFx: DONE - Display3D handles pygame components (2D)
   (11:07:01) thomasFx: Ray/plane, ray/polygon intersection
   (11:07:01) thomasFx: TODO - Wrapper for pygame objects to show them on 3D planes
   (11:07:01) thomasFx: Map 3D intersection to point on 2D surface (half done)
   (11:07:01) thomasFx: Movement classes
   (11:07:02) thomasFx: Billboards
   (11:07:04) thomasFx: Useful example program (image viewer)
   (11:07:06) thomasFx: BLOCKED - None



   (11:07:21) c-ryan: DONE: proof of concept HTTPClient, separated HTTPParser from HTTPServer, add response and request
   support to HTTPParser, basic tests for HTTPParser and HTTPParser, websiteMinimal.py - barebones version of
   website.py suitable for any site (used by HTTPServer), TorrentClient twisted compatibility, increased status
   feedback from TorrentClient
   (11:07:22) c-ryan: TODO: finish multi-torrent client, uploading support in HTTPClient
   (11:07:22) c-ryan: BLOCKED: exams/revision

   (11:08:11) ***MS- readin
   (11:08:18) mhrd: anagha submitted his outside of the mtg ... include in the post-meeting notes?
   (11:08:29) MS-: will do


4. Discussion items (max 3 or 4)
4.1 Releases
4.2 Summer of Code Community Points
5. Date/Time of next meeting
   Proposed: Thursday 22nd June 2006, 11am BST (GMT+0100)
   (Michael can't make Friday 23rd June)

====== END OF WEEKLY IRC KAMAELIA MEETING, 20060616 ======
   Participants: Matt, Michael, c-ryan, devendra_l, thomasFx, anagha
   Attending: tav, Uraeus

Michael.
   DONE - Discussed with legal changes to the contributor agreement to match their concerns. Checked in BitTorrent mainline code, and tagged as BITTORRENT_4_4_0 - for doing diffs against with Ryan's code. Jim Burnes - "Control/Signals in Axon" - Replied, 2b Add & checkin the proposed components into RELEASE branch. Release details, build build mechanism for viewing the website offline. Made Sketcher & Presentation tool "Show" releasable. 

   TODO - Get release out the door.
          Deal with aftermath of release issues
          Test release on GP2X :-)
          On the bliki: 4b Describe the requirement for the Database component
          Write detailed design document for Proper Macro
          Improve website documentation - long spiely text and how its used.
          Move Alsa components into Kamaelia.Devices
   BLOCKED - Internal BBC meetings (taking up 1 1/2 days)
             Waiting for legal to come back with yes/no on contributor agreement.
             Macro kit, waiting for TL, BB
             Fix fedora box - requires hardware.



Bank holiday weekend, earlier meeting than usual, No access to Macro
          kit, bbc.kamaelia.org still not accessible inside BBC(!), several day
          long meetings this coming week. Sourceforge down again for 1/2 day.



    MUST HAVES
    
    DONE  Sort out next Axon/Kamaelia release
    DONE  Modify internet subsystem to be compliant with selector changes
    DONE  Merge inversion branch onto head
    DONE  add linkage removal when components shutdown
          components that Macro.py depends on should be included in the release, even if we tag them as being experimental
    DONE  Anybox problem - looks at final destination inbox in a passthrough chain, this is broken :)

    WOULD LIKE TO HAVES
    
          Now and Next change detection needs to distinguish between programme update and programme junction.
    DONE  Move threading branch axon tests to right location & notify Michael.
          Merge tests from threading branch
          Write tests for the system inversion changes
    DONE  Synchronised boxes need reimplementing
          Many components don't play nicely with the inversion right now due to busy wait.

          Audit/update documentation as needed
          Propose candidate components to move into release tree.
